## Friday, February 19, 2021, 9:13:56AM EST <1613744036>

Just got done watching another very experienced "black hat" security
streamer who has done amazing things for American companies, but I would
be lying if I said I was impressed. In fact, the more I follow different
security streamers from the main stream I realize how much more I prefer
the skills of those who would never be caught dead in public streaming
about their skills.

For example, "Discord is where it's at, now" was the response someone
made when I suggested people find some good IRC channels. In fact, I'm
quite sure most of the people watching that stream have no fucking idea
what IRC is and why it matters. They sure as hell don't know what
alt2600 is.

I respect that there is a new generation of hackers who are comfortable
being in the open, and I absolutely love John Hammond who is heavily
from that generation. But there is a lot to be learned from the core
skills that are only exhibited on the dark side.

The quandary is that the most elite skills on the planet are not to be
had through any kind of "open" community. I know of one black hat who
works in the industry who "goes dark" for large amounts of time just to
train. He claims to not do anything nefarious and I believe him. He does
it to rub shoulders with those who have *real* skills, those forged in
the fires of Mount Doom that make people with security certs look like
hobbits in the Shire. But, the Hobbits won in the end. How?

The hobbits literally saved their world by taking their true hearts and
going into the darkest abyss without their choosing. The result was the
short but bad ass hobbits who rode in on full sized horses back into the
shire. These hobbits kicked ass, for all the right reasons.

I wanna be a hobbit like that, and it ain't happening by getting a piece
of paper and taking a Pearson exam.

## Friday, February 19, 2021, 12:30:06AM EST <1613712606>

Looks like my audio needs a 120 ms delay in OBS advanced properties. So
much to remember. I had to completely retune my camera after all the
changes. I'm so tired.

