##  Thursday, January 7, 2021, 7:07:34PM

Learned the hard way that you cannot listen to music from studio
speakers if there is *any* bleed into the microphone because it will
demonetize and mute your video.

##  Thursday, January 7, 2021, 5:28:36PM

Had a momentary lapse of insanity allowing myself to actually believe
that I could bring some reform to the educational system by working for
a local community college. I do this all the time. I get all idealist
about change that could be instigated there only to realize the reality
of mediocrity in the broken system and leave because I can't stand it.

It's one of those things that *seems* good until you realize what a
fucking strangle-hold crony capitalism has on the whole system through
"accreditation" where bloated, fat capitalist bureaucracies have to
"approve the quality of instruction" resulting in shitty curriculum that
cannot keep up with the demands of industry and the economy. 

I would have to *pay* to get a bullshit degree just to get a bullshit
job paying 1/3 the money of an IT career for a bullshit community
college where I would likely be fighting the bureaucrats and mediocre
instructors waiting around for their state pensions rather than
innovating to bring in reform. 

I need to work for a company that appreciates being challenged, not one
that punishes those who think outside the box and constantly challenge
the status quo. 

The whole thing needs to be destroyed and the way to destroy it is for
me to find a job with insurance making enough money to free myself from
the grip of a failed capitalist state enough to do nothing but write and
stream and create a pedagogy for the oppressed in the system. My best
shot at taking this whole thing out is making a better system, from the
written material to the technology involved, and then evangelizing the
shit out of it with all the blow horns I can find, streaming, books,
blogs, conference talks, etc.

If I can find partners who support this cause I just might have a chance
to *actually* do something about this failed system. Unfortunately, as
well meaning as many are in the community college system, partnering
with them at this point is just a drain on my resources and a complete
frustration. By playing their fucking idiotic game I'm actually
supporting the system I'm fighting against. Never again. I'm done
falling into this thought trap. I'll need a reminder again in a few
months. I always do.

##  Thursday, January 7, 2021, 4:53:17PM

Just out on
[CodeCombat.com](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=CodeCombat.com) and
noticed it still has ancient JavaScript in it. They really didn't design
any of that system for the future. It is completely brittle and unable
to be changed. It's a stark reminder that educational systems that focus
on technology need to be thought of as short-lived things that *will*
expire and need quarterly updates with new material. That is what I did
with SkilBots (and probably need to bring out of the closet again).
That's what I need to create for the <https://skils.dev> domain.

##  Thursday, January 7, 2021, 6:25:13AM

Just added a way to instantly post to the live chat a link that searches
my YouTube videos for a specific keyword or phrase:

```sh
vids lynx
```

I can also use it from Vim to include links.

```
https://www.youtube.com/c/rwxrob/search?query=lynx
```

I never get tired of how amazing the Linux command line can be at
solving problems so quickly. The UNIX philosophy really is the best
approach to computing for those who can muster the patience to learn it.

##  Wednesday, January 6, 2021, 8:28:08PM

As I write the [books](books) page I'm reminded how useless all the
educational approaches are without a method of mapping skills,
knowledge, and abilities so that the content can be associated with them
and gaps in learning tracked specifically. No such system exists on
planet Earth at the moment. Every time I'm reminded of this I get really
frustrated by the monumental amount of work to do in that area. There is
no good domain model from which to even begin. God knows I have created
several over the years, but I really need to lock one down. It would be
the most important domain model of my life because *everything* else
depends on it, not just some application. Thankfully, I have most of it
done, but I just need to document it.

##  Wednesday, January 6, 2021, 3:64:25PM

Those seditious assholes finally showed their true colors, storming the
capital building while waving American flags. 

##  Wednesday, January 6, 2021, 1:21:18AM

During a live stream we were discussing how cool the Raspberry Pi 400 is
and how great it is for education. It occurred to me that the number one
problem with the 1-1 deployment at Mooresville Middle School (a program
that Obama later visited and praised) was the breaking of Macbook
screens. Apple even had to give them replacements for free because it
was getting way to expensive and Apple wanted to save face. Had they had
the 400 there would be no screens to break and they could just plug in
to screens at the school. Any TV would.

This would also address the discipline issue of students using their
computer for things outside of class putting them at risk. For example,
girls would use the camera to do their makeup. It would also remove the
risk of predatory misconduct by the administration who regularly
activates the camera and mic without the students knowing, even when at
home.

Then there is the entire question of cost. A 400 is a fraction of the
cost of an Apple computer with a keyboard.

Speaking of keyboards, buying iPads for your school district is the
biggest way to show how fucking stupid you are. Kids need to learn to
type and you don't really do that with an iPad. The 400 addresses this
perfectly. In fact, it's like the anti-iPad because it's *only* a
keyboard. Kids need to learn to write, not push stuff around on the
screen with their fucking finger and thumbs. This really angers me
thinking about it, a perfect example of American crony capitalism that
is legitimately making Americas stupider. The Chinese --- and even the
English --- are laughing their asses off at us for good reason.

##  Monday, January 4, 2021, 8:11:50PM

After a member informed me his domain name is expiring and costs a lot
more to renew I got to thinking of the need for a domain at all for
young beginners, which, in turn, led me to question the very premise of
having a portfolio site at all. Here's the new information influencing
what is a new conclusion:

* Domain names cost money often going up in price
* Personal portfolio sites do not require forms or paywalls
* GitHub is the standard tech social networking service
* Most portfolio content will be in GitHub repos anyway
* Blogging (notes) on GitHub provides poor-man's RSS from updates
* GitHub Pages is now hosted on a CDN
* GitHub profiles are not provided for all accounts
* GitHub content outlives domains in the event of death
* GitHub now integrates entire discussion forum for each repo
* Git secondary origins allows push to both `github.com/<user>` and
  `github.com/<user>.github.io` repos at the same time

Consolidating all my personal and professional site content into a
single GitHub repo seems to be the logical thing to do for all of these
reasons. The repo itself is enough for many needs and adding a simple
web interface is trivial.

##  Monday, January 4, 2021, 4:41:43PM

After reading the legal agreement for "Memberships" on YouTube I cannot
believe anyone actually agrees to it. It gives YouTube an insane amount
of power over your content and is legally binding regarding any perks
you provide (or fail to provide) to those it outlines. I imagine it is
no worse legally than similar things done with Patreon, except they take
30% (Patreon only takes about 3%). It's clearly just a power play to
lock you into YouTube. Too bad so many YouTubers won't even see it
coming.

What's worse is that it perpetuates to *any* content that has ever been
provided under the agreement. Unlike partnerships (which you can drop at
any time) you are legally required to provide the content to the patrons
for the "period" over which it was provided. In other words, because
someone legally paid for perks and content at a given level they are
permanently granted permission to that content making it unclear if you
can even remove it at all. After all, your "members" paid for it.

Maybe I've overthinking this, but I don't think so.

It's not even original. They are copying exactly what Twitch does.

Besides, the kind of people who enjoy showing off their emojis and stuff
in the stream are not the kind of people I want in the community. I'm
not rewarding such behavior. I prefer rewarding valuable, informed
knowledge contributions rather than those who pay more cash. That's the
crony capitalist kind of shit that has gotten civilization into this
mess, more capital, higher priority. Not on my stream. YouTube can fuck
right off. I'm rewarding intelligent, thoughtful contributions even if
it costs me. But I'm quite certain there are enough *good* people out
there to recognize the value of this and provide their financial support
in other ways.

##  Sunday, January 3, 2021, 7:42:44PM

Quora is shit. Why on Earth would a site dedicated to questions and
answers not even load without JavaScript enabled. How fucking *stupid*
can you get? Fucking morons over there at Quora. Be warned, don't work
for that shit-stain of a company.

##  Sunday, January 3, 2021, 6:31:42PM

I've concluded Paulo Friere's [Pedagogy of the Oppressed](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Pedagogy of the Oppressed), which I
learned recently was banned in Arizona in 2012 by the powers that be
because it encourages people to question and think for themselves. The
final words of the Afterword really hit home with me:

> Friere's theory and practice proposed all education as politics. No
pedagogy can be neutral because all develop human subjects and produce
consciousness one way or another, depending on the ideology of the
contents, the social relations of discourse, and the learning process of
the curriculum. Any pedagogy of curriculum which does not question the
status quo tacitly or actively endorses it.

This reminds me of my rant against Rust's claim that "all technology is
political" but I can't help draw a distinction between one specific
technology as a tool and education. In fact, I'd suggest that the people
behind that assumption are conflating the two even if they mean well. A
gun isn't political. The culture --- and education that led to that
culture --- are.

The afterword concludes:

> For Paulo, throughout his life and work, the essential questions of
> this famous book remained:
>
> * What kind of world to we live in?
> * Why is it like that?
> * What kind of world do we want?
> * How do we get there from here?

All kind of bells and whistles went off in my head and heart when I read
those words.

These questions *must* be answered before anyone can pursue a
meaningful education of any kind. The lesser questions are automatically
answered in the follow-ups:

* "Should I learn to code?"
* "Which programming language is best?"
* "Should I go to college?"
* "What should I do?"

Over the past eight years I have seen hundreds of people struggle
with the wrong questions. They *think* they want to learn to code or
hack, but they haven't figured out why. Many claim they are learning it
to "get a job" but it runs deeper than that. Why does anyone get a job?
"To eat," of course, I can hear people say. But people throughout history
and geography have foregone eating when it mattered for what drives
them. You always have to eat, sure, but once you have nourishment
you crave more when you are still hungry for the pursuit of a world
you want to live in, even if your confused goal is lavish,
wasteful extravagance. 

So I would delineate the following for number 4 in Friere's questions:

1. Which skills, knowledge, and abilities will take us there?
1. Which should I learn?
1. How can I learn them?
1. When and where do I start?

SKILSTAK and my live streaming *are* that start, from my point of view,
for the most important tech skills, knowledge, and abilities to lead us
to the world I would like to see, but there are many more which are very
much not technical that are equally important. My recent personality
test (for fun) got me to thinking about that. In fact, it got me to
reassessing my career path entirely.

Yes I've had a successful career as a technologist. But my work history
is filled with the successful application of other skills that are *not*
technical --- most importantly community organization, evangelism, and
communication.

This leaves me asking myself a very important question that will shape
the rest of my life:

*Should I pursue a non-technical career at this point in my life?*

The question makes me shudder.

I am haunted by the humble group of evaluators from among my peers
during my initial on-boarding at IBM during an exercise where we were
forced to take on the opposite of our current comfort role. They
lavished me with praise as a team leader and kept saying that I should
*really* look into it. I never forgot it. Another time my favorite
manager said, "It feels like you are coasting" and I never figured out
what he meant. I still don't.

I enjoyed my career at IBM, but I most enjoyed when I became a default
leader and community organizer even when it wasn't in the job
description.

Aargh. Life is hard.

I feel like some people will be reading this and be like, "old, white,
dude problems, \*pffff\*". 

I hate that I've had it easier than others. In fact, that is the *one*
thing I want to work on with the rest of my life, which is why *under no
circumstances* will I ever stop live streaming educational content ever
again. It is the single most significant way I can address the
injustices in this world, for those who are willing and able to pick up
these skills and change their own stars. I just have to do it better,
which is why I think I might be most interested in a career that pays me
to do it. Now it's time to find one that does.

## Sunday, January 3, 2021, 6:17:36PM

Wife passed on this [great
article](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/sanjay-gupta-prescription-for-fighting-off-dementia-keep-sharp/)
about keeping our brains sharp and develop our "cognitive reserves." It
boils down to the following things (all of which I'm happy to say I'm
doing regularly):

1. Exercise --- "good for the heart, good for the brain", signals "I wanna
   be here", "sitting is the new smoking"

1. Diet --- "berries ... one of your best foods" for the brain 

1. Learning --- "change builds resiliency", "scares you", "not crosswords"

1. Sleep --- nightly "rinse cycle" 

1. Social --- "*critically* important", "walk with a friend",
   "neurochemicals released ... when touch ... look into someone's eyes"

1. Empathy, Kindness, Compassion --- "*ultimate* sort of nourishment for
   the brain"

I really love that last one. It proves scientifically that mean people
are objectively more likely to be brain-dead stupid and paranoid, which
2020 pretty much proves. At a personal level, I can attest that after a
mean rant I feel like I have lost brain capacity, not gained it ---
especially when compared to moments when I lavish praise on something I
love or laugh hysterically. Dopamine is clearly better for the brain
than Cortisol. I imagine that is how Robin lived so very long past the
limitations of any other mortal with a brain as diseased as his had become.

##  Saturday, January 2, 2021, 9:21:48PM

Need to remember the font type and color in OBS for my video thumbnails:

Setting|Value
-|-
Font|Lora Bold
Size|255
Color 1|`#fadb2f`
Color 2|`#d79921`

##  Saturday, January 2, 2021, 8:17:23PM

Below are the different profile sections one can add to their LinkedIn
profile. 

* Introduction
* About
* Featured
  * Posts
  * Articles
  * Links
  * Media
* Background
  * Work Experience
  * Education
  * Licenses and Certifications
  * Volunteer Experience
* Skills
* Accomplishments
  * Publications
  * Patents
  * Courses
  * Projects
  * Honors and Awards
  * Test Scores
  * Languages
  * Organizations
* Recommendations

##  Saturday, January 2, 2021, 2:15:50PM

As I transfer my work history from LinkedIn into a simple `vitae.yml` file I've
been enjoying the opportunity to reflect back on everything. Most of it
is pleasant, but some is not.

One memory in particular that disturbs me is when I befriended a girl
who was introduced to me by a mutual friend who was obsessed with
cycling as much as I was. She got me my job with the bike shop. She was
so kind and shy. She'd moved into the area at the suggestion of her
parents to find a husband even though she wasn't Mormon. Clearly, she
was under a lot of pressure from them to get married even though she
rarely spoke of it.

We became great friends, really great friends. We would bike no matter
what the whether. Eventually, we'd take breaks to kiss. I remember her
cold nose on my cheek. We'd work together in the shop even though she
didn't consider herself a mechanic. Looking back I now see that even
though everyone in the shop was friendly she was likely made to feel
inferior indirectly just from all the Mormon masculine energy.

We were both very horny college kids, like most repressed Mormons (even
though she was not Mormon). Making out became a regular thing. Even
though we'd never sleep together (which would get me expelled from
school and excommunicated) we did everything but. I fondly remember the
time we spent in her room, on that warm bed in the dead of Utah Winter.

I have similar memories with others during that age, but for some reason
she lingers in my memory because of the way I ended it, which haunts me
to the core now. It's too painful to even describe. Suffice it to say, I
ghosted her because ultimately I just wanted to be a good Mormon. When
her roommate who introduced us told me she was picking out lingerie I
freaked out.

I had violated her trust in so many ways. It wasn't that I used her, I
sincerely liked her, but I didn't love her. Eventually, that would lead
me to just stop reaching out to her at all, with no explanation, because
I was too much of a fucking coward to face her and tell her the truth,
there was no way we would ever be together and I didn't love her enough
to go further.

Either way I know I broke her heart. I've had my heart broken. I've been
ghosted myself. I just can't believe I was such a shit. Sure I was
young, but the pain of that continues to haunt me.

She faded out of working for the bike shop. I don't even remember the
details of how it happened, mostly because I was so full of myself and
my own ambitions at the shop. Ironically, later I would ride my bike
home from that same shop on the night I would ask my first wife to marry
me. Looking back I realize it wasn't even a year from the time I had
been dating the other girl. In fact, I never once mentioned her to my
first wife in all the years we were married (that I remember). Maybe
that is why I feel compelled to write about her now. She was a big, but
brief, part of my life, a melancholy memory that had all but faded. But
she deserves more than many others to be remembered. She was kind and
sweet to a fault and I stomped on it.

Maybe someone, somewhere reading this will learn from my mistake and
find the inner courage to be honest with people even after leading them
on for far too long. Ghosting is a cruel, painful way to end anything.
The right thing to do is to do the hard thing, which I rarely have. I
deeply regret it.

##  Friday, January 1, 2021, 6:51:02PM

[This](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2021/jan/01/robin-williamss-widow-there-were-so-many-misunderstandings-about-what-had-happened-to-him)
is why I refused to read *anything* when Robin Williams died.
I knew there would be so much more to the story and refused to make
any conclusions until I had all the facts. Now we know and can soon
watch a documentary about his condition.

[Dead Poets' Society](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Dead Poets' Society) remains the most significant film of my life.
Robin Williams was always one of the most important humans I have ever
observed, a hero in so many ways. 

From a very young age I was *obsessed* with him, an intellectual with
amazing capacity to understand the plight of the human condition and yet
able to put on a happy face despite the pain all around --- and within
--- him. 

[Mork and Mindy](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Mork and Mindy) had me laughing when, looking back, there wasn't
a lot to laugh about in my life. Mork's comic foibles as he learned to
understand humans were something I appreciated, maybe because more
was going on in my mind than I fully understood, maybe because I feel
like such an alien all the time (more today than ever).

I can't explain all the reasons and don't really want to over-analyze
Robin's impact on my life. Suffice it to say, Robin freed some part of
me as if to give me permission to be me and to be happy despite the pain
all around. 

His fate still terrifies me to this day. But even in death I
feel like he's speaking to me personally, not literally of course, but
in a way that says, "Here's how I *almost* made it through this. Now you
can understand. Do better. You can make it."

Thank you, Robin.

##  Friday, January 1, 2021, 6:19:57PM

2020 ends with the undeniable, overwhelming --- and now very main-stream
--- importance of
[containers](https://twitter.com/DetlefBurkhardt/status/1339355170560421888).
They've been important for a while, but these days learning them fully
is just not optionally for any serious technologist, even front-end
engineers.

In other words, understanding `docker` is as important as understanding
Linux or `ssh` today. That's how fundamental those skills are.

##  Friday, January 1, 2021, 7:39:55AM

Ran into an some info about an [old friend and
mentor](https://humanities.byu.edu/person/devin-n-asay/) who is still
working at BYU. 

(*I just had to add "BYU" to my spell check, now that's a trip.*)

Devin was hired while I worked for the Digital Humanities labs and was
enrolled in the French and Russian programs (one after the other).

I'm ashamed to admit when he was hired all I could think about was how
much I could do everything he was doing, probably because I was young
and *very* ambitious. Somehow I resented that Devin was doing what I loved
so much as a career and I sincerely believed I could do it as well,
after all, I was the first person in the entire Humanities college to
learn HTML because I taught myself from the spec before anyone else even
knew about it, including those in the faculty. I remember being
confidant, but not particularly arrogant. But I'm sure I didn't come off
that way to some. Devin, like many or the staff who mentored me, would
always make time to talk about what they were doing. 

I still have random, amazing dreams of being back in college during
those days. It was absolute bliss to be free to explore *whatever* I
wanted while working in the Humanities lab. Part of me feels like my
place is still on a college campus, but there is just so much broken
about *any* higher educational institution for me to ever be a part of
academy as it stands today.

I wish there were institutions with the leadership and vision to start
from scratch approaching learning in an entirely new way while
hearkening back to the truest form of education: mentorship. Everything
significant I learned in college from mentors like Devin. The rest of my
experience was learning *in spite* of the "banker-style" approach from
everyone else to deposit what they wanted into our brains.

I can at least dream of how it might have been if *every* learning
relationship I had in college was with peers and faculty who approached
learning in true Frerian "dialogical" form. They give lip service to the
traditions established by Socrates. They don't mean it. At the end of
the day, today's universities just want your money, that's why they dump
most of their budget into good football teams and schmooze-fests for
alumni. The stench of putrid pork fills their "hallowed" halls.

##  Thursday, December 31, 2020, 5:10:29PM

After more research looks like Consul+Nomad is for "small to medium
sized businesses" while Kubernetes is for "Google scale" enterprises.
This would be consistent with analysis from my own community members who
have compared Kubernetes to Swarm and preferred Swarm for its lack of
unnecessary complexity. Let's face it, Google loves to overcomplicate
and overengineer things and always has but Kubernetes is the industry
standard (unfortunately) so I have to learn it first even though
Hashicorp is clearly a superior company on pretty much every level.

##  Thursday, December 31, 2020, 4:34:37PM

Once again I learn a lot just by following the decisions of a single,
amazing company. 

Hashicorp --- the smartest tech company on the planet right now (that's
not even hyperbole) --- releases most of its latest stuff under Mozilla
Public License Version 2 (the new one). That got me to look at it all
over again. Turns out it is the perfect middle path between Apache (give
everything away) and GPL (restrict too much for most to use).

Now that I have [looked into
it](https://julien.ponge.org/blog/mozilla-public-license-v2-a-good-middleground)
I will be licensing (and relicensing) *everything* under MPLv2. It
protects trademarks, grants patents, is backed by Mozilla and more. I'll
do a better write up some day on the rest later along with a video.

##  Thursday, December 31, 2020, 4:18:26PM

After reading through the
[HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/tree/hcl2) spec it is *very*
clear that it is mandatory learning. It blows the freaking doors off of
TOML just for its JSON compatibility alone making it fit very nicely
between YAML (humans only) and raw JSON (machines only). It has native
Go parsing thanks to [fatih](https://github.com/fatih) (who fled the US
in 2020, by the way).

##  Thursday, December 31, 2020, 3:43:04PM

Nomad 1.0 from Hashicorp came out recently. So far the best review of
Kubernetes v.s. Nomad is from [Fabrice
Aneche](https://blog.nobugware.com/post/2019/nomad_an_alternative_to_kubernetes/).
He shares my observation that "Hashicorp is synonym with quality." I am
constantly in awe of their creations. It is on my top five wish list of
places to work, but it would be *brutal* because expectations would be
so incredibly high. Still, they say a healthy bit of fear and
trepidation about the place you work is a good thing. It means you are
pushing yourself. I would definitely be pushed at Hashicorp.

I'm reminded by Fabrice's article of the following core technologies in
this space:

* gRPC
* Redis
* PostgreSQL
* Traefik
* NATS
* Consul
* HCL

Of course, I've been playing most with gRPC and ProtoBuf lately.

Redis is on my list of things to overengineer for fun and learning.

PostgreSQL I have been using since around 2004 when I printed all the
documentation and read it all to deploy it at IBM.

Traefik I've dabbled with as Whitman played with it a lot.

And, I believe one of our community members has a significant role in the
NATS project.

Consul is absolutely foreign to me, a Hashicorp cluster alternative to
Kubernetes, it seems.

HCL is [Hashicorp Configuration
Language](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/tree/hcl2) that attempts to
replace YAML. I'm seriously conflicted about it --- especially since
TOML was already there. It claims to be "compatible with JSON" but only
after going through their converter. It has both a "human friendly" form
as well as a "machine friendly" form. This means that JSON can easily be
transpiled into and from HCL.

The HCL discovery makes me inclined to believe that Hashicorp is one of
the few companies on planet Earth that would actually appreciate my
creation of [PEGN](https://pegn.dev) and its reference implementation in
Go.

The main take away, however, is that there are several players in the
cloud native and devops space and isolating areas within that space for
specialization is a necessary task to be a truly productive member of
any devops or cloud native application development team.

##  Wednesday, December 30, 2020, 3:44:10AM

I *really* need to read the Command Line book from Neal Stephenson.

##  Wednesday, December 30, 2020, 3:29:14AM

*Update: I was wrong and so are most of the concerns in the article.
Submodules are fine when combined with tagging and locking down to a
specific version (as described in the comments of the article). In that
way, they are no different than Go imports that lock down a specific
version and have to be cleaned to update to the latest explicitly on
purpose.*

Turns out Git submodules are the devil. I was actually starting to like
them, but admittedly had not really pushed them hard. I thought having
to `git pull` changes to the submodule was just an annoyance, but it
goes *far* beyond that. 

Big thanks to [\@vierra01](https://twitch.tv/vierra01) for the heads up and the
[link](https://codingkilledthecat.wordpress.com/2012/04/28/why-your-company-shouldnt-use-git-submodules/).
He's hit pretty much every one of these problems in the professional
wild. 

God I love my community. They are saving the lives of other
technologists (including me).

##  Tuesday, December 29, 2020, 1:19:22AM

TIL some cool Bash tricks.

To split a file on semicolon just turn it into an array after resetting
the IFS value for only that line:

```bash
IFS=\; fields=($line)
```

I also learned of a *really amazing* way to convert between base 16
(hexadecimal) and base 10.

```bash
local u=${fields[0]}
local v=$((16#$u))
```

I also need to remember the following:

* `shellcheck`
* <https://explainshell.com>

##  Monday, December 28, 2020, 5:01:33PM

Discovered an [amazing summary of HTML element
usage](https://www.advancedwebranking.com/html/) while wondering if such
a thing existed to help isolate the key elements from those that are
unimportant.

I also totally forgot about [The HTML5 Doctor](http://html5doctor.com/)
which is an absolute must have resource.

##  Sunday, December 27, 2020, 10:48:31PM

Here's some [strong
evidence](https://www.sciencealert.com/humans-used-to-sleep-in-two-shifts-and-maybe-we-should-start-it-again)
(that my wife found) suggesting "biphasic sleep is a natural process
with a biological basis". I couldn't agree more, and I haven't done any
scientific research other than my own patterns and productiveness.

I particularly like the observation about "two periods of ...
productivity":

> [Biphasic sleep] provides two periods of increased activity,
> creativity, and alertness across the day, rather than having a long
> wake period where sleepiness builds up across the day and productivity
> wanes.

##  Sunday, December 27, 2020, 8:40:26PM

Tonight I learned that just adding a `+build ignore` comment to the top
of a file in a Go package disables the entire file, which is much easier
than attempting to comment the whole thing out while you are still
working on it but want to `go run` or `go build` the rest of package or
command.

```go
// +build ignore
```

##  Sunday, December 27, 2020, 8:32:28PM

I really need to use the CLDR/Unicode `gen.go` from the following repo:

<https://github.com/golang/text>

It is a great example of using `go generate` in a way that is entirely
in `go` using `go run` instead of shell or something.

##  Saturday, December 26, 2020, 6:20:11PM

Discovered today (on accident) that the `gh` command (from GitHub) has
built-in tab completion with `complete -C gh gh` (like I have for
`cmdtab`). I opened a ticket on the `cobra` project for this, but it
might have already been there. I really need to go spelunking through
the `cobra` code to see if there is a `COMP_LINE` defined anywhere
within it. If so, that would be a good thing even though the scaffolding
required to create commands that use `cobra` is still butt ugly.

##  Friday, December 25, 2020, 10:05:08PM

At this point if you are writing anything in ASCII Doc (`adoc`) you are
doing documentation wrong. I have a mind to fork
[`tcell`](https://github.com/gdamore/tcell/) just because of that single
thing.

##  Friday, December 25, 2020, 9:11:34AM

Really need to create an opt-in form for those who want their chat to
appear in the videos even before the need to do so becomes pronounced
due to greater numbers of people simultaneously chatting. Looks like
that `live` app/command is going up in priority.

##  Thursday, December 24, 2020, 6:14:09AM

Stuff I need to add to the `live` tool:

* `Davie504` slap when I start acting like Uncle Bob

##  Thursday, December 24, 2020, 4:34:33AM

Questions about monetization:

* Is it bad?
  * Decided no.
* Advertising is not bad
  * Decided no.
* "YouTube pushed monetized videos higher into visibility."
* I'd rather YouTubers get the money than Hollywood.

##  Thursday, December 24, 2020, 3:32:22AM

Lots of random thoughts running through my head right now that I need to
organize:

* Made YouTube Partner today
* Discuss the Question of Monetization
* Add localized time offset to Twitch Mark
* Redo Twitch Mark as part of `live` tool
* YouTube or Vimeo? 
* Patron live chat priority
* Community identity page
* Playlist cleanup on rwxrob
* Standard site template cleanup (CSS grid)
* Clean up and migration to GitHub

Videos to Make Immediately:

* Adding an Second and Third Origin to Git Repo

Videos to Eventually Make:

* Summary of Hardware and Streaming Setup
* Odin Project Review
* The Problem with Wikis

##  Wednesday, December 23, 2020, 4:44:12PM

As I've been reviewing the materials that are out there (and believe me
I've reviewed a lot of them) it has become overwhelmingly clear that I
have to continue my plan to eventually produce very *short* books on the
same topics that I cover in the *Beginner Boost* video series that are
full of beginner exercises that drive the learning of the concepts and
skills covered. As much as I adore *The JavaScript Way* the project is
abysmally bad and disconnected from the material. The source Markdown
uses the horribly non-standard Learn Pub flavor making it impossible to
actually publish with anything more substantial, such as as Pandoc and
LaTeX. In fact, I'm just plain sick and tired of every author not
knowing what language to use to do the writing, not having a common
knowledge syntax (which just brings home the importance of making the
Pandoc Beginner Boost as soon as possible).

I'm a bit annoyed that so much of this stuff *requires* that I do my own
thing because nothing similar exists, or similar things are just off
enough to make them unusable fully. I've made a proposal to the author
of The JavaScript Way about referencing accompanying exercises but I'm
not hopeful.

Also, no one wants to write *good* beginner material and most coders who
write actually really suck at writing. I'm realizing that is my
super-power. Getting the most across with the least amount of
complication (when I have time to edit and do it write and am not just
spewing like I do in these notes). I mean, the content I created and
used over the years at SkilStak is honestly better than all this other
stuff I keep telling myself I need to use because it is already out
there. Time to get my own stuff out there.

Here's another crack at the titles I would eventually want:

* Autodidactic Habits of a Successful Technologist
* Choosing the Best Code Editor for *You*
* Learning the Linux Command Line, A Beginner Boost
* Learning the Vim Editor, A Beginner Boost
* Learning Linux TMUX Terminal Manager, A Beginner Boost
* Learning Lynx Web Browsing, A Beginner Boost
* Learning Web Design, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning to Structure Data, A Beginner Boost
* Learning Pandoc for Personal Publishing, A Beginner Boost
* Learning JavaScript in the Browser, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Go Programming, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Bash Scripting, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Python Programming, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning SQL for PostgreSQL, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning C, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning PEGN for Grammar Creation, A Beginner Boost
* Learning Progressive Web Apps with Vue, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Docker Containers, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Git and GitHub, A Beginner Boost 
* Good to Gig: Developer Tools, Services, and Practices
* Learning Kubernetes, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning gRPC Protobuf, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Embedded Programming in C with Gooligum, A Beginner Boost 
* Learning Embedded Programming in Assembly with Gooligum, A Beginner Boost 

These are all targeted at getting beginners started out right. There are
a few topics I just refuse to cover until I'm forced to, such as the
entire NodeJS/Typescript development falling in the "Full Stack"
category. I simply refuse to help others learn the bloated crap. True
web development doesn't need any of that shit. If someone wants to learn
it there are plenty of resources out there.

I didn't include the book Greg and I have started. 

I really want to keep "learning" in the title because people associate
it with the first in a series. I really love that O'Reilly did that.

Some of these books would be super short, but that is just fine.

##  Wednesday, December 23, 2020, 2:59:57AM

Many things came out of the live stream about GitHub destroying the
progress of GitLab, but perhaps the most disturbing is this move by
GitLab to block all of China and Russia from using the service at all:

<https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/www-gitlab-com/issues/5555>

The manner in which this was handled is just so out of bounds I don't
have words for it. This is just unthinkable. I cannot support GitLab
after learning that they did this. In fact, this whole thing makes me
seriously question the world-wide hiring paradigm. GitLab has made such
a big deal about being open to everyone in the world, yet they randomly
choose to block certain countries from which espionage is a greater
concern, but still. Who's next? Who decides?

The simple fact of the matter is that GitLab has shown it doesn't
*really* know how to be a multi-national company even though it makes a
big deal about it. Companies like IBM have navigated these issues far
better even if their methods are more conservative. There's a reason
IBM's entire software division is headquartered in Canada.

##  Wednesday, December 23, 2020, 2:28:31AM

Need to take a look at Ultralight, which is apparently "what Electron
should have been."

##  Tuesday, December 22, 2020, 5:09:39PM

I was about to post a link to these posts about the GitHub stuff and
realized I have a greater need to build a knowledge base site search
interface than I thought because I will be moving this stuff around in
order to make room for new notes. 

My first inclination is to creation a standard way to link to the site
that invokes a localized search using JavaScript. That idea died quickly
because it would unnecessarily force a dependency on JavaScript.

Then a *good* idea crept into my brain: pre-render pages that contain
links to major keywords apart from the planned lexicon, a generated
index (in the truest sense of the word, like a book). Important words
are isolated, prioritized, indexed, and sustainably linked so that even
if things move, the index link never does.

The knowledge worker need for a workflow using this index approach is
very compelling. During the course of writing notes such a worker
realizes they want to share something about a given topic, in this case
GitHub. Then as they consider Tweeting about it they wonder what the URL
would be that won't change and would include any new writing on the
topic anywhere in the personal knowledge base. So they add an entry to a
special knowledge node type (`Index`) that renders search results of the
knowledge base for that term (along with any others that were added
previously). Then they post the URL to the localized entry in the
rendered index node as if pointing to an index in a traditional book.

Not only does this approach address the issue of sustainable links into
the knowledge base, but also deals with linking internally between nodes
when a single node is too limiting. Say for example the worker wants to
link internally to everything written on `vim`. There could be dozens of
nodes related to it. Some of those nodes are only mentioning `vim` and
not necessarily useful links. But those listed in the index node would
be so linking to something like `/dex/#vim` makes a lot more sense and
prevents tons of broken links when stuff moves around. In fact, by
strictly following this convention knowledge base authors are free to
move stuff around as they please. The 404 page simply needs to redirect
to the search index page and boom, a major obstacle to sustainable
knowledge management has been obliterated.

I've updated the brief [readme file on
this](https://gitlab.com/rwx.gg/kn/README). I think the `/dex/#`
solution is one of the more substantial thought breakthroughs I've had
in regard to all of this, and it was born from a real need I'm
experiencing right now.

##  Tuesday, December 22, 2020, 4:52:12PM

My last post about GitHub really outpacing GitLab has really caused me
to look at the reality that Silicon Valley companies still seem to be
much more successful than those with other models. As much as I
absolutely love GitLab, their progress is being destroyed by GitHub.
Could the main reason be the in-house, in Silicon Valley, difference? Or
is something else going on.

There's also that whole ownership by Microsoft thing. Microsoft *does*
know "developers, developers, developers" and has always put them first.
Sanjay is really kicking ass and taking names. Microsoft is the sharpest
it has ever been (and God knows I'm not a Microsoft fanboy). Microsoft
is going to get some explosive growth with its current plan and
relationship with Nvidia (the real gorilla in the room). GitLab is still
trying to focus entirely on the CI/CD stuff, and while keeping the
integration tight I'm now thinking that it might actually be losing
because of it. Allowing integrations with market leaders in a modular
way, as GitHub is doing, is more in-line with the Unix philosophy.
GitHub does *one* thing really well (now): Git source management in a
social way. This laser focus allows them to free up resources for stuff
like the `gh` command line, which solidified GitHub's dominance on the
API front having been the first company to adopt GraphQL when it came
out. GitLab *still* doesn't have a full GraphQL API.

##  Tuesday, December 22, 2020, 4:28:03PM

Since discovering I can push to both GitHub and GitLab without any
problem (no need for the mirroring function of GitLab), I'm really
feeling conflicted about continuing with GitLab or GitHub thing. GitHub
has really pulled away from GitLab in 2020 by providing many of the
things that GitLab pushed them to adopt:

* GitHub seems to be doing more, faster (SV perhaps?)
* Full command-line integration tool in Go
* Package repository hosting
* Template repos for creating new ones easily
* Elegant sponsorship integration
* Dark mode (which is far superior to GitLab)
* Friendlier personal profile catering to social
* Sharp social media card creation
* Far better searchability
* Integration with REPL.it and Digital Ocean
* Even more users than before
* Actions

Meanwhile GitLab still suffers from the following:

* No social media card support
* No command line interface
* Slower, clunkier interface
* Really abysmal support for Lynx browsing
* Bad (non-standard) Markdown support
* No command line integration
* Stalled work on GraphQL API
* Slowing adoption rate, fewer users

I had a similar conflict last year around this time. GitHub has
continued to *really* outpace GitLab. In fact, I'm not seeing anything
significant come from GitLab this entire year.

The issue above all others is longevity on the Internet. Now that
Microsoft owns GitHub it isn't going anywhere, ever. Microsoft is
blowing the IT world away right now. Longevity matters when deciding
where to host a stable library that will be imported from GitHub. In
fact, the following three considerations trump everything else:

* Longevity and sustainability
* Visibility to potential project participants
* Sponsorship promotion
* Issues and documentation

For all four of those GitHub currently *destroys* GitLab. I'm afraid I
already know what I have to do during this cleanup. I will be continuing
to support all code on both systems, but GitHub will become my new
canonical source. This means I have to learn `gh` fully. Because I'm
using it for issues and such I can drop the `gits` initiative since I
don't need to bother with them on GitLab.

It brings me great pain to have to make this change. I *love* GitLab as
a company and truly open source platform. I just cannot, in good faith,
continue to recommend it any further at this point based on the
objective facts before me. Beginners already have a lot to learn and
maintain, dropping even one thing they don't have to worry about is best
even if I wish I didn't have to push people away from GitLab as a
beginner.

##  Monday, December 21, 2020, 6:05:01PM

Something so simple can make me so happy. I can't believe I totally
forgot about this gem of a `lynx` configuration addition. This open a
graphic browser using the default for the current URL (`.`) or page
(`,`). It saves me so much time.

```lynx
EXTERNAL:http:open %s &:TRUE
```

I really need to do an exhaustive configuration and usage video for
Lynx. It is so superior to everything else.

##  Saturday, December 19, 2020, 6:22:10PM

Now that I've accepted my vimism fate (so long `vi` purism) there are
all kinds of possibilities that are just for my personal fingers. Here's
a rather obvious one. The default page down mappings are completely
brain dead and murder on my left hand, not to mention completely
unintuitive:

```vim
" Better page down and page up
noremap <C-j> <C-d>
noremap <C-k> <C-b>
```

And another thing, I'm fucking done apologizing for doing *everything*
in vim, even when helping beginners in the beginner boost. That's right.
I'm dropping VSCode completely from the *Learning Web Design*
walkthrough and never even discussing it other than to tell them to go
get an editor and install it.

##  Saturday, December 19, 2020, 5:41:29PM

I cannot overstate my joy at discovering the rather obvious solution to
`git` committing to multiple repositories by adding extra origins.
Looking over old notes I had a TODO to setup a backup system for my git
stuff just in case. But just adding a single secondary origin addresses
that entire risk in a very elegant way.

In addition, I get a "green dot" on both GitHub and GitLab for doing so
and I can easily teach this technique to anyone in 10 minutes. No more
does anyone have to belabor the decision to host on GitLab or GitHub.
You can do both simultaneously and no one can tell the difference. They
can fork, add issues, and live their lives without the fear that I'm
going to rip away source. In fact, when I accept merge requests and pull
down the changes I simply need to `git push` to sync them to GitLab,
which is *by far* the most practical way to keep the repos coordinated.

Obviously, adding the canonical source is essential in the `README.md`
file --- especially for Go package modules.

##  Saturday, December 19, 2020, 7:41:09AM

After discovering this cool little trick with multiple origins I thought
why not post to Source Hut as well. Then I saw that URLs have tilde's in
them by default which makes it impossible to have a meaningful, clean
URL for Go imports and other systems that depend on URL to source
repositories. That is a *major* oversight on the part of the Source Hut
designers. No wonder the very amazing `cview` project abandoned it when
they got serious. I guess some people have to learn the hard way.

##  Saturday, December 19, 2020, 7:31:11AM

TIL that the easiest way to keep GitLab and GitHub in sync is simply to
push to both of them at the same time (instead of messing around with
all the GitLab mirror stuff):

```
git remote set-url --add origin git@github.com:rwxrob/auth.git
```

This is so much easier than everything I was doing before. I need to
remember to include this in `gits` when I get to that eventually.

##  Thursday, December 17, 2020, 1:13:11AM

After a lot of discussion about implications for users not being able to
use something created with MimWorks if the license is banned by a
particular work place, decided to go with GPLv2 (or maybe Affero GPLv2
depending on the specific tool). The decision against permissive
licenses (like the perfectly good Apache 2) is simply because this is
the kind of thing that a malintent corporation (like Google or Apple)
would abuse when it becomes a competitor or cuts into their business,
which I strongly hope it will.

##  Wednesday, December 16, 2020, 5:54:06PM

Locked down some URLs. Some for the newly formed Association of
Federated Knowledge Workers:

* <https://afk.works>
* <https://gitlab.com/afkworks>
* <https://github.com/afkworks>
* <https://twitter.com/afkworks>

And some for the main MimWorks tools developed under the AFKWorks
organization:

* <https://mim.works>
* <https://mim.directory>
* <https://mim.sh>
* <https://gitlab.com/mimworks> 
* <https://github.com/mimworks> 
* <https://twitter.com/mimirworks>

I think MimWorks is the best name for the framework that includes all of
the major components and efforts:

* MimWorks Markdown Editor
* MimWorks Knowledge Browser
* MimWorks Knowledge Manager (including Search)
* MimWorks Collaborator
* MimWorks Learning Assistant
* MimWorks Career Manager (Dharma Director)
* MimWorks Metrics
* MimWorks Modules

It seems best to put all of this under a sponsoring non-profit
association to which people can contribute freely and get tax breaks and
stuff. So far here's the best name I can come up with (that is unique):

* Association of Federated Knowledge Workers (AFKWorks)

"Federated knowledge" is knowledge that is separate --- owned and
controlled primarily by individuals --- but shared and combined in a
federated way without centralization of any kind just as Git is a
federated source management tool.

The nod to `afk` is nice because it implies that organizing away from
the keyboard for the benefit of all human knowledge workers is actually
a thing people can do. In fact, I suspect the first time we organize a
knowledge worker strike that the AFKWorks acronym might even transform
into a slogan.

Yeah, I'm pretty damn proud that I came up with that all by my little
self. I'm kinda good with words, even when I spell them wrong.

##  Wednesday, December 16, 2020, 5:21:49PM

Just discovered [The Association of Knowledge Workers,
Lucknow](https://akwl.org) which appears to never have taken off, but
just started last year. It's no coincidence that knowledge workers all
over the world are beginning to organize, just like labor did at the
start of the industrial age.

In 1959, [Peter Drucker, in his book The Landmarks of Tomorrow, appears
to have coined the term]() "knowledge worker" even though it is the
natural best description today. Frankly, Drucker's definition is fucking
stupid, the product of a hyper-inflated, white male ego with an early
1960s ethos. In his mind only those involved in "theory and analysis"
qualified. That's bullshit. A home-maker is a knowledge worker. A
teacher is a knowledge worker. And yes, a scientist is a knowledge
worker. In fact, the most important knowledge workers of any age are
those who discover their knowledge through practical, autodidactic
exploration and apply it pragmatically and immediately to solve real
problems facing us and our world. Drucker's ivory tower definition
deserves to be thrown in the trash-heap of history along with his book
and most of the rest of everything created based on 1950s ideologies.
The 50s, not unlike the Catherine era, was one of the worst times in
human history from which we have still not recovered.

##  Wednesday, December 16, 2020, 4:54:00PM

So much came out of the last live stream:

* Revisited the Knowledge Net architecture
* Discussed the problems of modern society from Google, etc.
* Realized (again) this is too big for just me to do
* Had the idea for organizing *The Association of Knowledge Workers*

My wife just made the observation that we are really facing the same
time as the 1930s during the industrial revolution when labor was
formed because big business was stepping on its employees and everything
else in the world without any consequences. We have the exact same thing
happening now, but in a different way. Today's evil railroad and
manufacturing companies are almost all in Silicon Valley. They don't
necessarily need to fall, but they do need a kick in the ass.

What did the people do then?

They organized.

I'm having one of those moments in life that people refer to as an
epiphany. It feels like every second of my life has led up to this
moment, every decision, every action, every single thing I have learned,
including my French and Russian language skills. Revolution *is* coming
and I realize that I can at least be a catalyst for it as it happens.
Linux was revolutionary. The Web was revolutionary. And we need to
organize and create ideas and solutions to revolutionize how knowledge
workers live their lives.

A quick glance at the Web reveals that people have been [thinking about
the plight of knowledge worker
efficiency](https://www.amanet.org/articles/struggling-to-manage-knowledge-workers/)
for some time. Certainly this is the goal of MimWorks, but the larger
issue has nothing to do with technology. It is a social issue, a labor
issue.

One thing is for sure, such a movement cannot start within the
"hermetically sealed happy-town" that is Google (or companies like it)
even though the workers there are the most exploited. It will be better
to form outside the reach of such juggernauts. Besides, knowledge
workers *includes* educators as well as those paid 10x their salaries
for having sold their souls. These companies understand the efficiency
issue and make "dashboards" (IBM) to "increase knowledge worker
productivity" but they do *nothing* to federate knowledge and promote
universally beneficial ways to capture, collect, and share knowledge
outside the scope of that specific company.

Plus this whole conversation directly attacks the notion that any
organization owns *all* knowledge a worker acquires while employed with
that organization. Indeed, no enterprise should have that level of power
and the only way to make greedy companies see this is to organize the
human labor that provides its collective knowledge to empower such
organizations to provide the wake-up call to these companies stating.

"Our knowledge is ours. We *are* your power."

My not-so-evil-plan-to-change-the-world is to organize knowledge workers
empowering them in every way possible. It's been my plan all along, but
the details have only gradually been revealed.

##  Wednesday, December 16, 2020, 12:53:35AM

Started the first live stream for *Designing Mim, a Framework for
Decentralized Knowledge Management*. The more I thought about it all day
(and drew pretty diagrams) the more I see the relation between all the
components that described in the previous note:

Component|Description
-|-
MimBase|Knowledge management
MimWork|Life's work manager
MimSkilz|Personal learning assistant
MimDir|Light listing of MimBases

I'm realizing the last 10 years of my life have been informally
dedicated to promoting personal learning and knowledge management and
sharing systems and applications.

##  Tuesday, December 15, 2020, 4:28:20PM

The more I work on this `protoresume` project, the more I realize it
isn't really solving the main problem I have. It might assist with the
creation of a resume, but that is a very infrequent thing. What I
*really* want is a domain model for my life and work, a *LifeDB* (for
lack of a better term).

At first it seems a little overblown in scope and even silly, but think
about it, it's no different than playing an RPG video game where you
have a life with stats and achievements and skills trees and such. It's
just *real*. In fact, doesn't it seem a bit ironic that we have these
complex systems for role-playing and other games but we have *nothing*
similar in ease of use despite the complexity for our *actual* lives?
The more I think about it, the more pissed off I get. Because there is
money to be had in creating such systems for gaming they exist. But
because there is no money in creating similar systems for personal life
tracking and management they don't exist in real life. Until now...

I'm seriously motivated to build this. It actually connects all of the
other systems I have been focused on for the last seven years. Mim, the
Knowledge Net, is focused on individual knowledge capture and
management, including personalized searching and following other
specific individuals. Mimark is the simplified Pandoc Markdown for
writing everything. PEGN is the tool for creating Mimark and other
grammars enabling natural language search queries and interactions. The
`cmdtab` package enables tab completion and readable commands. The
`gits` project integrates the Git-services as main storage mechanisms
for the whole thing. In fact, more of my life as been developed to
creating this system, I just didn't realize it at the time.

Since Mim was the name I choose for the Knowledge Net I think it might
be the best central entry point to the entire system. The `mim` command
would become second nature to everyone and executed frequently
throughout the day. This makes the *Mim Framework* more of a thing than
just the knowledge net part of it. I can use microservices architecture
using gRPC to implement the entire thing in a completely modular way. At
it's core, Mim will be about the individual and completely
decentralized. It will place all the power of the world's most advanced
technologies in the hands of the *individual* instead of the fucking
corporate interests who employ the same techniques to destroy our civil
liberties, privacy, and economy. 

The `Mim` project would have one very unofficial goal: destroy Google,
Facebook, Linkedin (any any other ad-driven organization) by making them
utterly irrelevant, by promoting and pumping up the more effective use
of trust and word-of-mouth networking. It's certainly a lofty goal, but
if I don't at least try I just won't be able to rest, for Aaron. It will
be even sweeter if we employ Google's own tactics and technologies
against it.

The most important element of the entire Mim framework will be the *life
data model*, a schema that captures the life and work of a human being.
It makes me giggle a bit that I'm seeking to capture something of such
immense scope, but it doesn't have to be any more complicated than a CV,
or most resumes, or most RPG character profiles. Like I said, if they
can do this for video games then why not for *actual* humans. 

This all makes me think the title should be *Overengineer Your Life with
Mim*.

##  Monday, December 14, 2020, 6:34:15PM

My wife made dal with Basmati rice. As I took a bite the taste and smell
instantly transported to my favorite Indian food restaurant run by some
amazingly kind humans (Sikhs) in New York. The warmth and cozy feeling
standing, hunched over a thin table attached to the length of the wall
with Doris and Ben on different occasions are memories I will never
forget. 

Ben and I drew courage from that small bowl of dal before heading out
into the unknown to rush a flight home to catch a glimpse of what we
thought would be my youngest son dying after his head was nearly
crushed under the wheel of a construction worker's F150 while he was
hiding from his friends. 

My hands shake attempting to type these words at the memory. 

The description of the scene is not something I can repeat even in
written form right now. It was --- by far --- the most traumatic
event of my life. I learned about it from a panicked x-wife
on the way to the hospital (who *never* called me ever for anything
else) saying only "if you want to see your son alive get to Idaho now,
they can't stop the bleeding, his head was run over."

That is all I had to go on. I could only imagine the worst. I barely
made it into the apartment we were staying in over Christmas in New York
where I collapsed in spastic, guttural moans on the bed. When I finally
got it together I told Ben. He had a hard time as well, but did much
better than I did. We ran down the stairs having packed practically
nothing, abandoning my wife, step son, and dog the day before Christmas.
On our way to find an Uber we grabbed a quick bowl of dal to sustain us
on what would be an insane journey of frantic holiday flights the day
before Christmas eve to get to him in time.

Suffice it to say we made it. 

Entering the room I was strong. So was Ben. We stayed happy, jovial,
normal, for him. I have the picture of his head wrapped up, just one eye
pocking out, his finger connected to an red led detecting his pulse. His
delicate hand my only reminder he was still in there. Most of the skin
on his head had been completely ripped off, but they had reattached it.
As luck would have it, the best pediatric surgeon in the region was in
the hospital that night. The story would clearly have been different had
he not been there.

There are a lot more details I don't care to remember right now. These
things come up every Christmas. And this humble bowl of dal is the
biggest trigger of all. 

They are good feelings now. I witnessed a legitimate, objectively
undeniable miracle over that Christmas. Brought on, I believe, by the
collective prayers and good-will of thousands pulling for him. His story
made local and some national news. 

My son is not only alive and well now, he jokes about the scar that
curves and wraps around his slightly misshapen head now, a constant
reminder that if even one pound of pressure more had been applied, well.
The photo of what that huge truck with snow tires that left a tread on
his skull says everything about what *could* have been. 

I have to focus on the miracle of that Christmas and not on the horrific
"what if" scenario.

Christmas carries so many specific memories, both good and bad. It is as
if the Universe knew I was destined to be associated with this time of
year in some way. It makes me wonder what is to come on Christmases yet
to come.

The reminds me. I need to watch Alistair Sims' Scrooge.

##  Saturday, December 12, 2020, 10:00:15PM

It has been tough working through time very difficult decisions to be
made regarding the changes being forced on our family. Perhaps the
toughest of all is the reality that I cannot maintain 25 hours a week in
private mentoring any longer. At best I can manage 12 (3 hours per
week).

This means I have to successfully combine or remove 13 people when I
take on full-time employment, which is an absolute must at this point.

There are no easy answers here. Only one of them is aging out into
college. The rest are mostly people who have been with me for years.

I've changed my pairing [policy](https://skilstak.io/policy) in order to
see where I can combine some of them based on the learning goals I
describe in the policy statement.

None of this will take effect until I accept a job, and I'm not rushing
into just any job, so there should be time to work this out in a way
that keeps everyone happy. In fact, a few will be happy about the
pairings I've suggested because they already want to be together. 

One thing is absolute. There is *no* room for new people at this time. I
was premature in mentioning it on the live stream although having them
on the waiting list is better than nothing. So many of the new
applicants are people I feel like I would love to work with. But crony
capitalism has decided that I simply cannot help them, not me. 

If crony capitalism were an actual human I would shoot it in the 
face with zero remorse. It has destroyed the lives of millions.

##  Saturday, December 12, 2020, 7:29:18PM

It has been a tough day. It feels like all the realities of our current
time and situation are crashing down on my family. We haven't gotten
Covid yet (thank god) but Doris not being able to work in art education
is really hurting us. We'll make it through it. But I'm feeling a
monumental amount of stress from carrying us through this. It's not for
lack of anyone's desire to do what they can, just the fucking reality of
the world and economy we now live in.

The result is that many of the things I *want* to do with the last half
of my life are going to be eclipsed by the things I'm *required* to do.
It's like the Universe heard me talking about passion and following what
you want to do, and the rhetoric about "just having to be willing to
sacrifice what it takes to do it" and is hitting me in the face with it.
I'm simply not (and never will be) okay with sacrificing my family's
welfare to simply follow my passion.

Ironically, my passion is to help others, and it really feels like I'm
being punished for it. Capitalism does not reward people seeking to
promote the betterment of the whole, only those willing to profit at all
costs and get away with as much as they can. Just mentioning those words
sends small-minded assholes --- who are completely controlled by their
capitalist dictators --- into a rage.

So, I'm going back to work, most likely for corporate 'Merica. I just
don't have a choice. I either do it or we die, rather literally.

I actually have a waiting list of people to mentor at SkilStak and it
just doesn't matter. I have done everything right. I've run a successful
business focused on helping others upskill and reskill in tech to
improve their own social mobility and I'm being punished by the system
for doing so. 

American crony capitalism is every bit as oppressive and evil as any
flavor of communism but in some ways it is worse because it is sinister
in its lies and sophistry to manipulate idiots into thinking anything
else is a reduction of their freedoms. Having health care is *not* a
"communist" request. These idiots don't have *any* fucking freedom but
just don't see it. The statistics are overwhelming.

I admit I feel the pull of populism myself and the inevitable desire to
target a specific community rather than attack the problem. The
difference for me is that my populist angst is against the army of
morons that call themselves patriotic Americans. These
gun-toting, god-loving, brown-people-hating, education-is-evil,
conspiracy-crazy, dumb-asses are screwing me and everyone else over in
the worst way. They are being manipulated to destroy America by our
enemies and America's own elite all in the name of Jesus, in the name of
America, which they claim are one and the same. *They* are the problem.

But all of that is exactly what a citizen in a country on the brink of
collapse to capitalism always says. There's always someone else to
blame. There's always an excuse not to look inside and see what more I
can do myself.

So I guess I'll just shut up and work. I *will not* give up my
community. I have worked too hard for these people who have
become just as important to me as family in some cases. People can
judge me for saying that. I don't give a fuck. It is the essence of who
I am and if people don't like it tough. 

So this is what my weekday hourly time budget will likely look like:

Hours|Work
-|-
8|Job
3|Mentoring
1|Exercise
1|Grooming
2|Relax
1|Family
8|Sleep

Eating will have to be included in the Job and Mentoring and I'll stick
with quick meals. Watching documentaries and stuff will happen during
the Job time while I'm coding. Informal streams during the week fall
into Relax time. Some streams on the Job may be possible, which will
influence the jobs that I consider.

This schedule assumes I'll be doubling up most of my mentoring sessions
(once I have the job). I know that is not ideal and might anger some in
my community after making such a big deal about moving them to
one-on-one, but the alternative is kicking some people out, some of whom
have been with me for years. I'm just not willing to do that.

This leaves Friday evening, Saturday, and Sunday completely free for
recovery, long exercise, camping, family, sex, and (yes) Beginner Boost
streaming from which other opportunities and additional income streams
will come through subscription video content. I figure it will take at
least an hour of editing for every hour of video content in order to
have it ready to post as subscription contents.

##  Friday, December 11, 2020, 4:08:52PM

Here's a summary of the main Go terminal UI modules:

Module | Usage
-|-
[`termui`](https://github.com/gizak/termui)|Charts and graphs
[`cview/tview`](https://gitlab.com/tslocum/cview)|Text heavy TUIs
[`tcell`](https://github.com/gdamore/tcell)|Basis for `cview`
[`gocui`](https://github.com/jroimartin/gocui)|Like `cview` but not
[`termbox`](https://github.com/nsf/termbox-go)|Deprecated but still in use

##  Friday, December 11, 2020, 6:50:26AM

I've shifted from random enthusiasm about what this overengineered
resume project could grow into a centralized database store to a saner
focus on promoting an individual career database (of sorts) that just
happens to be able to produce specialized resumes (akin to views in a
database). This movement toward an individual tool allows a safer focus
on maintaining emails, phone numbers, and addresses within a personal
resume without doxing them in any way. Then someone making use of the
`resume` tool could decide which template to use to produce public views
of them. This makes me feel better about the direction.

##  Friday, December 11, 2020, 4:33:16AM

After some experimentation with the automated documentation generation
from `protoc` it is clear that I *never* want to use inline style
comments because they are lost after all the tags in the Go code that is
generated and since structs in Go are presented exactly as they are in
the documentation that would make them unnecessarily ugly. Here's a
quick example:

```protobuf
message Foo {
  // better to write stuff here
  string thing = 1;
}

message Bar {
  string thing = 1; // than here, cuz ugly generated
}
```

##  Friday, December 11, 2020, 3:32:27AM

A quick glance around the Internetz reveals no *obvious* AST parser for
the Protocol Buffer grammar. There is something in Antlr, but yeah.
Eventually, this is the kind of thing that would immediately benefit
from being captured in [PEGN](https://pegn.dev) because I could render
the parser code for it immediately and quickly make a `vim` plugin or
whatever for it.

If nothing more, this is a good example of why a *good* meta-language to
capture *any* grammar is such a powerful idea.

##  Friday, December 11, 2020, 2:42:24AM

Need to create an addition to my Vi/m guide that covers the specific
most common key combinations during an edit session, for example:

Combo|Description
-|-
`dw`|Delete word (from beginning)
`bdw`|Delete word (from middle)
`cw`|Change word (from beginning)
`bcw`|Change word (from middle)

I think it's actually easier to remember these combos than the
individual commands themselves.

I've also been experimenting with `jj` and `kk` (along with `kj` and
`jk`) as an alternative to `Ctrl-[` (which I once really argued against
since only Vim supports that stuff.

##  Thursday, December 10, 2020, 2:55:32AM

I *must* create `rwxcoin` to coincide with the giving of points in my
live stream. It would just be too much fun not to do it. I can offset
the time it takes to process the coin by putting that in a batch
background somehow.

I just have to figure out how to be the only person who can give out the
initial coin as points. Also, it is a good idea to keep the `rwxcoin`
separate from the points on the stream (after they've been given)
because people could start trading in `rwxcoin` to buy time and
influence in the chat without earning it.

##  Thursday, December 10, 2020, 1:01:10AM

Here are some links about Protocol Buffers that seem better than others:

* [Protocol Buffer
  Explained](https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/websites/web-development/protocol-buffers-explained)
* [Google Protocol Buffer Style
  Guide](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/style)

##  Wednesday, December 9, 2020, 6:16:17PM

One thing is for sure. Rob Pike seems like he has nothing to do with the
day-to-day direction and proposals to the Go language any longer. I
suspected there was a decline in his involvement beginning with 1.13 and
it seems to be confirmed. I have not seen him participate in any threads
from the Go core team.

With all the crap going on with the unnecessary and wasteful addition of
generics to the language in 2.0 I'm seriously thinking of orchestrating
a fork of the core language and ripping out all the `context`
dependencies that have polluted everything. Hell, I could even fix the
leaking `goroutine` situation if I really wanted to and had the time.

Obviously, I likely will not do that given the time constraints, but
damn, I really want to. The way the team has simply thumbed its nose at
the simple proposal for Go to follow it's own style guidelines
(changing `context.Context` to `context.C`) is just laughable. Most of
the thread says it is in agreement and out of no where one of the
contributors says, "I think this is a declined proposal based on the
above." It's like the dude can't fucking read.

This is *exactly* why Linus holds the kernel so close to his heart and
only let's extremely trusted people anywhere near it. Same with Brahm.
The Go team is currently running Go into the fucking wall and they don't
even see it.

I'll tell you who *is* seeing it though, the Rust community. While their
core team shares some of the same flaws, the overall way they deal with
proposals from *everyone* is far more democratic. That's probably why so
many parts of the language are `cargo` crates, because the best
submission wins instead of having to bow down to the core team.

I can't believe I'm saying this, but for the first time I'm starting to
see why some highly elite developers are just fucking done playing the
Go game. Google *does* have shadow control of Go. That much is becoming
more obvious every day. Google might not control it directly, but all
the people on the core team accepting and rejecting proposal all seem to
be employed by Google. I could have been seriously wrong about something
that is *very* important. Once upon a time I could be leery of *any*
language that has signifiant influence from *any* company. It's why I
was hesitant with C# and Java actually.

Bottom line: it is very likely that Google *does* control Go and any
peon like me doesn't have a prayer of getting a proposal even
considered. That's a big fucking problem, despite all the rest. If they
are not careful with 2.0 the rift might just give a large segment of the
Go community reason to leave to Rust, Typescript, new Typescript-esque
Python, or C.

I need to cool off a bit before I make any conclusions here. I'm just
pissed because something so obvious has created such a controversy,
mostly because it came from some random dude, and not a Google/Go team
member.

##  Wednesday, December 9, 2020, 3:06:20PM

It was unusually difficult to discover the format for `protoc-gen-doc`
comments which turn out to be the same at Go, yet another suspicious
similarity between Go and Protobuf.

##  Wednesday, December 9, 2020, 3:08:43AM

Looks like the word [crowdcoding](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=crowdcoding) already exists. It is definitely
what we are doing on the live stream.

##  Wednesday, December 9, 2020, 2:23:34AM

I've actually never written a browser plugin and think it would be a fun
and useful addition to the "overengineered resume" project since
something will be needed to screen-scrape the LinkedIn data in a way
that has been authorized by the user and command-line alternatives are
more complicated when it comes to authorization.

Another option is to be able to "push" into LinkedIn rather than pull
out the data. Perhaps both. [\@the_kca](https://twitch.tv/the_kca) from Twitch recommended that.

##  Monday, December 7, 2020, 3:28:47PM

<https://youtu.be/8sgycukafqQ>

##  Sunday, December 6, 2020, 2:26:45AM

OMG. I am terrified. Their are companies breathing live in the dead,
maggot-riddled corpse that is Flash.

<https://leaningtech.com/pages/cheerpxflash.html>

Maybe I can be convinced that this is a good thing since it uses WASM.

##  Friday, December 4, 2020, 1:39:37PM

I *really* need to get a [Steelcase Gesture chair](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Steelcase Gesture chair) when I have money.
This one from IKEA has never really cut it. But all the fancy gaming
chairs have arms preventing from sitting in Lotus and are overpriced.

##  Friday, December 4, 2020, 3:43:36AM

<https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3>  
<https://blog.golang.org/protobuf-apiv2>  
<https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/pull/12398#discussion_r505322880>  
<https://github.com/a-h/generate>  
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39873229/protobuf3-string-validation-with-regex>  
<https://github.com/envoyproxy/protoc-gen-validate>  
<https://research.google/pubs/pub43438/>

##  Friday, December 4, 2020, 2:17:51AM

Take a look at [Mage](https://github.com/magefile/mage) when you get a
second. It's an interesting `make` alternative.

##  Friday, December 4, 2020, 2:05:11AM

Nice tip from [\@taniwha3](https://twitch.tv/taniwha3) about this "hard earned" generator line for
incorporating Protocol Buffer IDL into a Go project:

```go
//go:generate bash -c "protoc -I .  *.proto --go_out=plugins=grpc,paths=source_relative:. --proto_path=$GOPATH/src/ --proto_path=$GOPATH/pkg/mod/  --proto_path=$( go list -f '{{ .Dir }}' -m github.com/golang/protobuf )"
```

##  Thursday, December 3, 2020, 6:24:55PM

<https://github.com/PuerkitoBio/goquery/> is good for screen-scraping in
Go.

##  Thursday, December 3, 2020, 3:23:45PM

Having way too much fun just creating a stupid resume by considering all
the ways to capture the data in a structured way so as to not have to
cut and paste from Word documents or some shit. So far the coolest is
creating a [ProtoBuf
Language](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3)
version, so much fun.

##  Thursday, December 3, 2020, 2:12:52AM

Wow, Docker is now officially not a part of Kubernetes. It will
[deprecated](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/1985-remove-dockershim) soon.

##  Thursday, December 3, 2020, 1:06:35AM

Need to look into `jail@penowl.top pw:jail` and also
<https://github.com/alpinelinux/alpine-chroot-install>

##  Wednesday, December 2, 2020, 7:09:50PM

I fucking hate how rigged the system is. I simply cannot get health
insurance unless I work for a particular type of company, one that is
highly funded by the approved oligarchs of our society. It fucking
sucks. The entire system requires that you make *someone* a lot of
money, no matter what. Perhaps you have something that is going to
fundamentally change how humans communally learn, think, and work. No
one gives a shit.

Even if begging for funding were in my nature it still isn't going to
get my insurance. In fact, it will just frustrate me more because I'll
be paying precious investment money on higher premiums and just working
for a big company simply because I'm not big enough to command the bulk
sales discounts that large corporations can provide.

So the biggest single impediment to my entire plan in getting insurance.
I fucking hate this. God help us all if an advanced society like that of
2020 hasn't even figured out how to keep people universally healthy even
though we spend \$700 billion dollars a year on the military budget.

##  Wednesday, December 2, 2020, 5:15:47PM

Udemy sucks for people who know how to create their own apps, which is
not nearly as hard as it used to be. They give creators only 25% of
their says and completely control your content. No way. Not for me.

Nope. Imma make my own app and host all my *good/edited* videos on
Vimeo. I'm even going to be streaming building the whole thing to help
anyone else build their own learning community as well.

Udemy provides searchability. So I'll make a bunch of free content over
there to direct people to the live stream and then to the premium
content. But I'm *never* going to just produce paid content. Instead,
those who want the edited and condensed stuff take from the live
sessions can pay and support the stream and community in the process.

##  Wednesday, December 2, 2020, 5:03:31PM

I just had a major break-through. It was one of those moments when
everything just came together. Here's what it was about.

My dharma is creating learning communities. It's building learning labs
and helping others find their way. It leverages all of my skills
together, the technical with the conversational, presentational, and
written aptitudes.

*Not* leveraging my greatest calling and talent is just not acceptable
no matter what my perceived needs are (insurance, for one). I simply
must follow through and have the faith that, as Christians say, "the
Lord (Universe) will provide." But I have to have a plan, and that plan
has become crystal clear within the last hour.

The basis of the plan is the promotion of communal learning in a sharing
economy. It includes the following foundations:

* Free and open credentials focused on industry needs
* Free learning labs live streamed to every platform
* Paid content derived from edited live learning labs
* Building of free progressive learning app with DLC
* Crowdfunding additional support for the effort
* Community-building merch to subsidize the effort
* Focus on helping others build their own communities

This is just RWX all over again. Thinking back about 2020 I realize that
this contains the original goals I started and had to back away from
because, well, life happened. But the world needs this more now than
ever.

Here's my action plan as of today:

1. Organize *all* live streams into topical sessions about something
   that can later be edited and published as a PWA
2. Stream as much as possible the learning and development of all the
   pieces including the very learning app itself
3. Prioritize the live stream topics based on what is in the critical
   path to monetization and/or employment

I hate writing that because it sounds like I'm unemployed. I'm not.

Off the cuff, this means I need to focus on the following
as simultaneously as possible:

1. Beginner Boosts 
   * Autodidactic Habits of a Successful Technologist
   * Workthrough: Introduction to Linux
   * Workthrough: Learning Web Design (JAMStack)
   * Workthrough: Eloquent JavaScript
   * Workthrough: Head First Go
   * (rest are secondary)
   * Workthrough: Creating a Platformer Game in Phaser3
   * Workthrough: FCC, Responsive Web Design
   * Workthrough: Bash Man Page
   * Workthrough: Google Bash Style Guide
   * Workthrough: Tour of Go
   * Workthrough: Exercism Go
   * Workthrough: FCC, Algorithms and Data Structures in JavaScript
   * Workthrough: Head First C
   * Workthrough: Mastering Algorithms in C
   * Workthrough: Gooligum Embedded Programming, Assembly
   * Workthrough: Gooligum Embedded Programming, C
   * Workthrough: OverTheWire, Bandit
   * Workthrough: PicoCTF
1. Experienced Exploring
   * Go Topical (Contexts, etc.)
   * gRPC
   * Git Proficiency
   * websockets
   * Containerd (Docker)
   * Kubernetes
   * Redis
   * Oauth2
1. Advanced Activities
   * Developing the `live` Command for Live Streamers
   * Developing the RWX Portal and PWA
   * Developing Open Credential Specifications
   * Developing PEGN
   * Developing Mim, the Knowledge Network
     * Mimark (a faster Pandoc replacement)

I'm sure the list will grow, but that is a start to I can keep track of
stuff.

##  Wednesday, December 2, 2020, 4:30:35PM

After reading through the YouTube partner policies for advertising
content I realized there is no way in hell I will ever seek to be a
YouTube partner. There are just too many mines to avoid, not just
profanity. I can't even talk about what YouTube deems controversial
material, but what is the point of talking about important issues
dialogically if you are going to get slammed.

This leaves me with the following options to actually pay for the time
and energy it takes to do this stuff:

* Merch
* Crowdfunding
* Grants
* Udemy
* Books

The point is to have the activity fund itself, not some other activity
that funds this activity. For example, in the case of helping beginners
to learn JavaScript the best option seems to be supporting
<https://eloquentjavascript.net> through a Udemy course (since the
content is entirely creative commons licensed). I would make my live
streams free while I am recording the raw content, but the edited
content would then go on Udemy. People have the option of watching the
unedited stuff anytime, anywhere, but the Udemy polished content would
cover the general cost to make it. Over time the Udemy money would
counter the time investment. It's just a matter of running some numbers
to see how long it would take to recoup the time investment.

##  Wednesday, December 2, 2020, 12:20:33AM

Need to look into `xwinwrap` in order to make a video into the GNOME
background.

##  Tuesday, December 1, 2020, 2:20:21PM

I'm finally hitting some nasty hanging `pandoc` errors due to the size
of my running notes file. I've known I would hit this day and in the
past have come up with all kinds of more intelligent approaches to the
whole thing. It doesn't take a genius to know that rotating a massive
single Markdown page once is a while is a good thing. But doing so
removes the extreme ease with which I can find notes just using simple
search from within `vim` or `grep`. I don't suppose even grepping
multiple files is that hard either. But what I *really* want is what
I've already designed: a system for keyword matching based on the
lexicon of the entire thing that looks for specific words within
proximity to one another, not directly next to each other.

Still, I can't help but realize how limited and frankly broken `pandoc`
is for the use case I have and why Mim, my Knowledge Net idea really
needs to become a reality.

I'm pretty fucking annoyed that I cannot complete the stuff I *want* to
work on because of the constraints of learning and maintaining skills
that are employable. A lot of the stuff I'm interested in making is
stuff that world doesn't even know it needs or wants yet. But so often
when they do hear about the designs they want it *now*. So do I.

I'll go ahead and rotate these notes by year. The end of this one is
fast approaching.

##  Tuesday, December 1, 2020, 1:53:51AM

Need to consider [Helm](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Helm) and [Kustomize](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Kustomize) and other visualization and
template creation tool for Kubernetes on this "over-engineered live
stream utility".

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 5:10:15PM

Read this [interesting write-up on [immutable data structures in
Go](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/persistent-data-structures-for-gophers-persistent-stack-70aa012d3bfa).
It's really a unintentional testament to why premature optimization for
the compiler and garbage collection is fundamentally evil and should be
avoided at all costs until you *really* need it and have someone
proficient with the profiler to do it *after* you've already prototyped
your application.

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 3:11:07PM

I've concluded that the best to combine my career learning and fun
projects is to turn this `live` project, an assistant for live
streaming into a full-blown microservices app with bots in containers,
notifiers in their own containers and a centralized interface that
supports commands from the command, a terminal user interface in
`cview`, and an HTTP interface using websockets.

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 9:52:00AM

Jackpot! The [Certified Kubernetes Application Developer
(CKAD)](https://www.cncf.io/certification/ckad/) as a completely free
[open source curriculum](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum). This is
*exactly* what I need. It focuses on the specific things to be
trustworthy as a Go CKAD, perhaps the most in demand --- and lucrative
--- occupation for any Go developer in the world right now, not to
mention a lot of fun. 

Getting this certification is my number one priority above everything
else. Nothing I do will be related to anything *but* increasing my
ability to pass this exam. Thankfully all the work I've been doing on
the `live` project directly relates to most of this. After reading all
about gRPC and Protocol Buffers it's clear that even though I *could*
implement all the logical components of it within the same executable,
that it will be a much better learning project if I make each major
component into a container using the appropriate protocols. The `live`
project will definitely be over-engineered for the basic need, but I
will accomplish my goal of modularity while also working toward CKAD
certification.

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 9:31:48AM

Learning all about [Protocol Buffers](https://restream.io/channel) from
Google today and so far been really impressed. It also really makes me
feel amazing about what I managed to do with PEGN AST JSON compact form,
which is the smallest possible JSON. Protocol Buffers discard any
reference to the values in order to make them the absolute fastest way
to communicate over a network wire in a flexibly structured way.

I mean just read this, it's as if they literally picked my brain on the
PEGN AST JSON long and short form:

> A schema for a particular use of protocol buffers associates data
> types with field names, using integers to identify each field. (The
> protocol buffer data contains only the numbers, not the field names,
> providing some bandwidth/storage savings compared with systems that
> include the field names in the data.)

It sounds really arrogant, but I could totally work for Google if
I *really* wanted to. I just *really* don't want to.

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 5:21:41AM

Looks like it clearly is better to send a link to the YouTube live
stream instead of using Periscope *at all* which is *horrendous* quality
in comparison. The only effective difference is that followers on
twitter cannot see the number of views and also have to click to make
the video play.

So, I'm dropping streaming to Twitter, which has the added bonus of
allowing people to participate in chat immediately and sub if they like.
After all, if I ever wanted to monetize YouTube would be the place to
send people.

Also, I need to detect when people make comments on a Twitter post of a
live YouTube video or retweet it so that I can get the notification in
real time.

That reminds me that I also have to integrate comments on the YouTube
live stream videos so that they show up in the chat log pane.

##  Monday, November 30, 2020, 5:08:27AM

Did some calculations of what if we used Digital Ocean for my own
restreaming of RTMP in conjunction with chat from bots logged into the
services to reduce all lag.

* 1800/hour/stream @ 4000Kbps
* 540GB per stream per month
* DigitalOcean @ 0.10/GB
* \$54/stream/month @ DO
* 10 hours a day for 30 days

##  Sunday, November 29, 2020, 4:59:23PM

Oh. My. God. Where has `xdotool` been all of my life!? I'm so in love. I
can do anything that can done with any input device whatsoever by
using this amazing command. What do disable `screenkey` from
typing out passwords? 

```
xdotool key Control_L Control_R
```

Yep. You can control the keyboard, mouse and anything in between. I'm
in love. This means that in my terminal `live` tool when I focus a
window for chat I can automatically disable `screenkey`
temporarily so there isn't a big conflict for screen real-estate.

##  Sunday, November 29, 2020, 1:14:02AM

I really need to do a series just on creating and maintaining a codebook
and/or notes repo.

##  Sunday, November 29, 2020, 12:47:45AM

Sometimes I just have to remember to chill the fuck out. So much going
on in the world to make a person *not* want to do that right now. I look
forward to starting up my Ashtanga practice again tomorrow. Since the
move my schedule has been really messed up. So much urgency in the air.
But there is cause to be happy, things are looking better for everyone.

##  Saturday, November 28, 2020, 1:43:29PM

As I was worked more on my `cmdtab` library today I realized that my
dream of doing code generation, instead of depending on `init` functions
as I do now, is completely doable just because of the consistent format
that the `cmdtab` files provides. In other words, I can add code
generation *to* `cmdtab` for those who want it. The command would be
something like `cmdtab gen` and would parse the `init` functions of the
files and generate code that would not even invoke any `init` function
at all at run time.

It's not like the `init` functions are bad. There is almost identical
performance between looking stuff up in a table/map of subcommands and
flowing through the logic of a massive switch.

It's just good to know I can add it either way. This means that any
hesitation I had about `cmdtab` using `init` has been obliterated.

##  Saturday, November 28, 2020, 12:24:37AM

Out of curiosity related to the `iferr` tool (that I still haven't
figured out) I happened upon the [vim-go
tutorial](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go/wiki/Tutorial#beautify-it)
and ended up spending some time with it picking up the following really
useful tips:

* `[[` and `]]` automatically go to `func` definitions
* `K` mapped to open documentation (`:GoDoc`)
* Activated a *lot* of syntax color (off by default)
* `<leader>c` toggles code coverage syntax highlighting
* `<leader>i` information about what is under the cursor
* `dif`/`daf` delete inner/all of a function
* `vif`/`vaf` select inner/all function
* `yif`/`yaf` select inner/all function
* `gd`/`ctrl-t` jump to/back from a definition
* `:GoRename` when on a symbol of any kind

I almost need to make a flashcard program just to remember them all, but
they are so worth remembering.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 10:08:46PM

Torn between doing this a quick way that I know will work because it is
just a little application that will only run currently as a command and
using a full `context` and `goroutine` idiom, which I really need to get
better at intuiting if I am going to get serious about a bunch of
communication work in Go because it is all about concurrency, API
requests, and handling the errant leaking `goroutines`. Context are
*specifically designed by Google* to address those issues and the
lack of elegance of `context.Context` (which was obviously not designed
by Rob Pike) is just one of the many things about contexts that I'll
have to overlook.

I also have to start using channels and concurrency even if it isn't the
natural first thing to pick because it is the *go to* thing in any
backend coding. Besides, which processor power the way it is now, it's
time to start approaching what seem to be simple menial tasks with a
*default* consideration for how they can be done concurrently (without
losing maintainability and simplicity too much).

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 9:37:51PM

Turns out that the super "clever" practice of embedding a GitHub Gist in
your blog (instead of just fucking typing in the code) makes the code
completely and totally unreadable by text-based browsers and blind
people. Yet another "yeah we royally fucked that up" moment from the
good people at GitHub. They are literally destroying the Web every day
with that shit.

Here's an example. Go look at this [shitty Medium blog](https://medium.com/codezillas/golang-leaky-goroutines-and-how-to-clean-them-30b505417028) (yet another
reason to *never* use that fucking horrendous service). The content is
relatively good, but the choice 1) to use Medium and 2) to embed a Gist
when you could have just backticked in the code makes it really lame and
distracts from the content.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 9:15:21PM

I've been putting off using Golang contexts in anything significant. I
really hate them. But, they are used everywhere and I feel like firing
off a `ConnectAndLog()` goroutine seems to be a pretty obvious use case
for what people *say* they are good for. Imma try it out. Hopefully it
is lighter than passing a channel for coordination, which is what I'm
used to.

One reason I am considering them is that I believe they avoid the nasty
situation of starting a function as a goroutine that should have some
sort of error returned.

```go
func ConnectAndLog() error {...}
go ConnectAndLog() # blows up
```

Rather than returning the error, cancelling the
context is more effective and stable.

```go
func ConnectAndLog(ctx context) {...}
go ConnectAndLog() # fine now
```

I have to admit that if `context` is *the official* answer to the fact
that Go's already [unpopular garbage collection does *not*
cleanup](https://medium.com/codezillas/golang-leaky-goroutines-and-how-to-clean-them-30b505417028)
errant goroutines than I will openly confess Rust *might* have a solid
in on that front if it can make up its fucking mind how it wants to do
concurrency (they are on like their fourth iteration of official ways to
do it). I *really fucking hate* contexts.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 7:49:08PM

So the design that is emerging for this `live` streaming helper utility
stuff is to just capture the websockets data to a rotated log file with
a `service` (sometimes called a `daemon`). That way the volume of
incoming chat and the speed won't affect memory of any app using it.
Then we just put a tail on it with something like `live tail` for those
who want to see the raw log. It also makes quick status commands like
`live views` faster to calculate because just have to reverse tail up
until we get the right status update and grab the data from those. This
also argues to keep the chat and event logs different, as Restream has
already designed them that way. The potential volume of chat could be
enormous for live streamers with lots of views, which reminds me, doing
it this way also ensures that the person running the stream can throttle
and filter the incoming messages as they desire, at least with regard to
what gets written to the screen. At some point integrating the `ban` and
`mod` commands for each supported service into `live` could be useful as
well.

Another thing logging also allows is the mocking up of utilities and
commands that can use the stream of log data to pretend it is incoming
live from the websocket.

This means I have to get the basic logging service working right away. I
already have the downloads working, so just have to pipe that to a file
and setup a concurrent log watcher to rotate when they get to a certain
size. I think watching the size is more important than anything else
otherwise it will be too hard to stitch everything back together again
when mining data from them.

I'm thinking I could also keep some running stats recorded as well and
just update them every time we rotate a log.

Oh, and then there is the possibility of importing all of it into a
database for searching later. I could build a web site that is updated
through static site generation with indexes on all keywords and allow
searching through the logs for stuff. That way we don't have to depend
on Discord for that.

Humm, I'm pausing to think if that would need a formal database or not.
I think if I made an SSG (like I will be using on Mim, The Knowledge
Network) with word indexes pointing to files that contain links to
specific posts in other static files that no database would even be
needed.

Let's face it. Databases are really old school these days. Other than a
quick, in memory thing like Redis for tracking sessions and Oauth2-like
stuff they are really useless and incur a *huge* technical debt
potential cost over time. As soon as you add a DB you can no longer
leverage CDN caching advantages. You are bound to one server without a
lot of complication, and as soon as you are bound to a server you have
all the other administrative problems that go with it.

Still, I could approach the whole thing in a K8S style. We'll see. Don't
want to get too crazy. It's just a way to search the logs after all and
grep (or equivalent) is fine for most of it.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 7:25:01PM

Have to be really careful with OBS Studio lately. It keeps crashing but
keeps streaming. Something about the desktop GUI that stops working but
it is still found. You'll notice it when you try to run another OBS
because it thinks there is another one running, but only when you
attempt to stream and says the stream key is in use. The danger of this
is really obvious.

One way to be protected from such mishaps is the `live service` that I'm
creating that will stay connected to the websocket services and continue
to report on if something is still live or if there are still viewers. I
know that because when I open the web chat app from the `restream.io`
site it is there showing there is still something going on.

After the mishap with Discord live stream remaining on after OBS was off
that is yet another reason to centralize all these little things into a
single service running in the background that has your back with you
make a mistake.

It occurs to me that all of these little lessons in live streaming while
working are perhaps good for others as well so that more people can gain
a level of comfort sharing their daily coding work with others, thereby
helping and motivating them to contribute more themselves.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 6:12:00PM

Forgot to add [Golang Swagger
implementation](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Golang Swagger
implementation) to the list of core skills, and also Kafka.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 3:11:46PM

I need to create a video and walkthrough of how to isolate bugs that are
not obvious without the use of any sort of error reporting that gives
you a line number. Using long comments and print statements any
developer can get to the root cause of a problem incredibly quickly even
if they cannot see what it is at several steps along the way. This
technique is not particularly obvious to beginners but is learned though
hard experience when nothing else will work. I've learned over the years
that even the best debugging, stepping IDE execution, and other code
analysis tools still are not as reliable as the good 'ol "comment and
print" method.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 3:22:09AM

I have to remember that `slop` is the name of the X geometry helper
utility. It is essential when changing position for the `screenkey`
utility.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 3:02:52AM

Oooo, more good resources for learning Kubernetes from one of the
original architects. <https://kube.academy/> 

I'm really torn because as much as I know stuff is important learning
and maintaining gRPC and re-learning IDL and all the other languages of
cloud platform application development is a *huge* amount. I suppose the
question for me is, will I remain interested in just maintaining and
helping people setup Kubernetes environments or is my true passion in
the systems integration programming and helping all the things
communicate with each other. I think I just answered my own question,
it's the second. I'm not even sure if I actually *like* k8s given a lot
of the dubious decisions in its architecture that I've *already*
encountered. No, I'm quite certain I want to keep with writing code, and
words, lots of words. I fucking love to communicate and that is not
something a lot of people into DevOps cloud development are into. I
fucking *love* writing technical docs. I know. I'm demented.

And, since I'm pontificating here again about my future and strengths.
I'm pretty damn good at helping other people learn things, so perhaps
that is the target career, to master all the things and them be the
executive consultant that my friend wanted to hire me to be (for
\$250k/year no less). Yes, I will *never* come away from the command
line and the coding, but there's something to be said for the amount of
change one can bring about by helping other organizations and
individuals master this shit. That's really my, um, calling? Oh, god.
Where's my coffee?

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 2:06:52AM

Doh! Turns out Restream has *two* websockets channels, one with a `chat`
subdomain and another with `streaming`. The first is the one I wanted,
the second the one I coded first. I'm glad I figured it out though
because I love that they are completely concurrent so that I can have
one goroutine updating status in the terminal view (incoming, outgoing,
views, etc.) while the other just focuses on drawing the incoming chat.

##  Friday, November 27, 2020, 1:28:37AM

So looks like I have to do a round-trip for every "event" chat message
that comes in. The websocket API (that I got working finally) just tells
you a message happened, but not what's in it.

##  Thursday, November 26, 2020, 10:34:07PM

The more I think about this `live` tool and where to put all my emphasis
when it comes to the chat portion of the stream, the more I think
Discord is really the way to go. Here's some reasons why:

1. Discord is *primarily* a chat service
1. Discord keeps messages around and if you pay even longer
1. Discord enables long-term connections
1. Discord supports anonymity for those who wish
1. Discord is something people already have
1. Discord supports limited Markdown in messages
1. Discord is informal and fun
1. Discord is stable ... enough
1. Twitch is forcing people to watch long ads
1. Twitch is moving *off* of IRC
1. Twitch has zero transcoding, YouTube is free
1. Twitch had better discoverability, but not that much
1. Twitch API is wonky and inconsistent
1. People will join the community, not just twitch live stream
1. People will have a place to go when the stream is offline
1. People can chat with others in different servers while watching
1. Discord server becomes a community home

I figure if I make a bot that represents myself (which I need to check
on, because at one point they seriously frowned on that) then I just
have to have the bot login and post everything to Discord. Then I can
relay everything from Restream to Discord or let the Restream Bot do
that instead. 

##  Thursday, November 26, 2020, 10:23:43PM

As I dive back into Websockets in Go it looks like the landscape has not
changed that much from the last time I looked (which was like four years
ago or more). Here's a [good
comparison](https://www.mindinventory.com/blog/how-to-use-websockets-in-golang/)
if anyone else is looking. The low-level GOBWAS looks very interesting
for things that are much more demanding of performance. But for my
little [`live`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/live) utility that sucks down
the Restream.io chat via websocket buffers I am thinking
[`gorilla/websocket`](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=`gorilla/websocket`) is still the way to go. It's an external
dependency (unlike the standard library version) but oh well, I have at
least two other dependencies already.

##  Thursday, November 26, 2020, 1:59:49AM

So while trying to fix my <https://rwxrob.live> page with the
Restream.io embed that is broken I randomly found the place in my Twitch
preferences where I turned on "only verified email addresses can chat"
and it got me to thinking, "Humm, I wonder if that is why the people in
my chat are so much more well behaved than before." Maybe not, maybe
just because there are a lot fewer people, higher quality people. Just a
thing that made me go, "Huh."

##  Wednesday, November 25, 2020, 1:00:46PM

Worth noting that learning Vim registers really isn't worth it, to me.
After spending a few minutes researching it just writing to temporary
files is far more universally effective --- especially since this can be
used from two different Vim sessions running in different TMUX panes
while Vim registers do not. I thought for a bit that maybe `viminfo`
contained the registers and Vim polled the file for changes bringing
them into the other running Vim session automatically, but no. Maybe
discovering this will same someone some time later. Just stick with `:w
/tmp/blah` and `:r /tmp/blah` and you're good.


##  Wednesday, November 25, 2020, 2:20:28AM

Mormonism is Scientology Lite, a Christian-ish form of it much like
Jehovah's Witnesses. All of them destroy families by getting them to
believe whole-heartedly that "families can be forever" --- with
seriously unattainable conditions, so you better not fuck it up for
everyone.

"You destroyed our family!" my oldest once told me whom I have no
connection with whatsoever now, by his choice, and that of his
disgusting grandfather who threatened "to destroy me" in private knowing
he could deny it and that no one would ever believe me --- especially
after my near breakdown that resulted in a mental hospital stay for a
week to recover after I lost everything. Ironically, a kind Mormon
hippy-boomer, who secretly didn't really believe any of the shit, 
took me in when I had no one else.

Why did my oldest son and others think *I* had destroyed the family? 

Because I did, but I had help.

Not only did I stop believing in the Mormon shit, but I quickly became
incapable of suppressing my rage by writing pages and pages in my
journal, which my ex later ripped up and bled all over in red ink before
returning it to me, at how much I had fucked up my family for raising
them in it. And how much rage I had for my Mormon ancestors who, in the
name of "sacrifice"  *fucked their families up* even letting innocent
children die horribly on their "trek to Zion" in the name of God.

So much of the Zionist pioneer heritage shit is nothing but a bunch
people giving their children cyanide in different forms. Those pioneers
*killed* their families forcing them to do things they were incapable of
disagreeing with. It's not heroic. 

Dropping your children into the sea who languished and died horribly, or
froze to death and had to be buried in graves chipped from the ice, are
not things to be romanticized. They are sick and demented. Stop fucking
singing about "the pioneer children" like they had any fucking choice in
the matter! You celebrate "the pioneer spirit" like people in the 50s
celebrated Columbus Day, the brutal raping and killing of an entire
friendly indigenous race.  Call it what it was, forced labor and
institutionalized prolicide! The only thing *worse* than that would be
doing it all just to possibly find some gold some where. That's right,
I'm looking at your California.

The love of my children, that's why I went to the psychiatrist, to see
what to do for those whom I had *already* seriously psychologically
harmed. I literally drove me insane to realize the damage I had done
them. This is why I relate *so much* with [Mike Rinder](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Mike Rinder) from the
Scientology documentary. 

I went to the "doctor" in private. The Psych (to borrow a Scientology
term) tried to help, but not really. He told me that I should *never*
reveal to my wife that I had cheated. He disavowed any association with
me while I was in the hospital. I gotta say, I do agree with much of the
sentiment in Scientology attacking the "Psychs" because it has *always*
ended poorly for me.

Mormonism is bat-shit crazy once you *understand* what it is.

One son, who is now a happily married gay Canadian (something I am now
blamed for by my ex-wife) once, to our embarrassment then, randomly told
a stranger on the swing-set in the park, "Hey, did you I'm gonna be a
God after I die." That is not an exaggeration. He was taught that as
young as six years old, and he believed it. Who wouldn't?

A lot of this shit is "sacred" and just my sharing it will permanently
ostracize me from Mormons, including my own family if they are
believing. And of course, it means I am going straight to Mormon Hell.
You see, one can't just run around at family gatherings blurting out
what happens in the Temple. They would *literally* kick me out on my ass
rather than put up with that level of "insensitivity."

So here's some more blasphemy, since we are celebrating.

Mormons take on new temple names. Mine was Moroni and my ex-wife's is
Leah. I'm supposed to kill myself now for telling you that, by the way.
I've permanently thrown away any hope of getting into heaven just by
sharing those facts. That is how *capricious* and sick the Mormon God
is.

How about crazy, closet homosexual temple workers touching naked people
as they "wash and anoint" them?

Or being nearly drowned for about 20 minutes being baptised "by proxy"
as fast as possible "for the dead" --- including for Jewish holocaust
members until the Jewish community came at them outraged at their
insensitivity. I felt so good knowing these people, just sitting around
in limbo, could *now finally* get into Heaven, 'cuz our "loving Heavenly
Father" ain't got the power to allow people into Heaven unless some
bored teenager gets all uncomfortably dunked on some random Saturday.
"We all get to be saviors, in a way" was the idea. 

Or the "bishop" who led those trips being busted in a sting operation
for soliciting sex with a teenage boy while on a business trip there.
The same "advocate" in my excommunication "trial" who was doing that
shit while actually "defending" me. I might have left the church and
hurt my family, but at least I wasn't a fucking hypocrite, coward,
pedophilic predator who *still fucking attends that ward for some
reason.*

Fuck that shit.

Yep, I did act out several ways that "life may be taken" --- including
slashing my throat, taking poison, and cutting out my guts --- when I
made the "sacred" temple oath never to reveal all this shit (and more)
and to prefer death before disobeying my leaders or "speaking evil of
the Lord's anointed" (who are all men, by the way, and were *only* white
men until 1976 when God suddenly changed his mind to let blacks into the
Celestial kingdom, they could not before). 

I promised to "consecrate everything the Lord had blessed me with, or
would yet bless me with to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints" --- not just 10%, *everything*. 

I testified to the world that Joseph Smith, who was "called by God" to
"take to wife" (which is Mormon prophet speak for "free fuck") the tight
young "handmaiden" working in their home, while his wife was living
there and not telling her because "God had commanded it be so"
(something that made Emma go fucking insane later). And that's just the
first time. Yes, long after statutory rapist Joe stuck his face in a hat
to "receive revelation" and later erased Min's penis from funerary
scrolls he thought came from Abraham, this "prophet" would fuck and
steal hundreds of wives, some belonging to other men, because God
commanded it.

So, here's my prayer ...

`/me raises his arms up high as if before the temple alter`

Pe le el.  
Pe le el.  
Pe le el.  

Or the new and improved version God decided to change sometime in the
80s because the other shit freaked people out too much apparently:

Oh God here the words of my mouth.  
Oh God here the words of my mouth.  
Oh God here the words of my mouth.  

Dear Heavenly Father, you perverted, bearded, white, angry, polygamist
in the sky. What ever happened to Heavenly Mother? Is she hanging out
with David Miscavage's wife? Oh great Elohim, father of Jehovah receive
my request I beseech thee. Oh God Almighty, you piece of
fictional shit made up to excuse the worst atrocities humanity has ever
known, please hear my plea ...

Go fuck yourself.

*Nobody* needs you, God, at least not *you*, you piece of shit. Who gave
you that title anyway? We got this, the Universe has our backs.

And no, Satan didn't fucking tell me to say that. Get over yourself, oh
Heavenly narcissist in chief. Oh commander of "servants" to form
political action committees to send my tithing dollars as dark money
funded against Prop 8 and others while claiming the church is
"a-political" and ordering other "servants" to hack women and children
to death in Mountain Meadows. 

What? Yeah, you don't like me bringing that one up. I know. You always
claim that you didn't order that? That they acted on their own? That
they got confused and unsure who was giving the orders and what "the
Spirit" was telling them? 

How the fuck do you think they got that messed up in the first place?

No, oh Heavenly creepy ice-cream man, who actually brags about spreading
"your seed" all over the universe, we humans can just pull together as a
*real* human family, one that doesn't play favorites, that doesn't boot
people for not believing in you, one that finds a way to exist together
in a society that balances justice and mercy. Maybe we'll make it. Maybe
we won't. But we don't need you telling us who to hate, shun,
fuck, convert, or kill. Stay away from us, you perverted cuck. We got this.

By the way, I'm really sorry Witnesses, but you got the whole Jehovah
thing all wrong and Mormons have a nice place in the "Terrestrial
Kingdom" for you where your punishment is perpetual boredom and "but I
just coulda" reflection, but don't worry, people from the "higher
kingdoms" can visit you when they feel like it and rub your noses in the
fact that you didn't make it to the "highest" level of Heaven. You'll
*never* be able to visit them because you simply cannot exist in the
presence of their "glory" which, in a demented way, still gives me joy
today because if anyone who loved me actually made it to "the Celestial
Kingdom" while I'm hanging with the rapists and murders for divulging my
temple secrets in the lowest "Telestial Kingdom" they could always come
see me. No worries though, only people who vote for Trump, the Lord's
imperfect vessel, are going to the Celestial. Why the *fuck* would I
ever want to be near that place? *That* is where hell is. God, I'd take
an eternity of *actual* fire and brimstone over listening to Trump
supporters any day.

But my *real* work is on myself. How can *I* improve from all of this?
My work is to *somehow* look *past* the Mormonism, past the
Scientology, the cult-think, and see these *people* for the *victims*
they are, to someone see the *person*, not the cult. It takes amazing
courage and internal fortitude, strength that I seriously lack still to
this day.

I don't know how. It's so hard when people literally believe what
they do, and *act* on it, destroying my life and so many others. How can
I forgive *anyone* who still believes that shit?

But I would be a big hypocrite if I can't find a way. Because I did it.
I was them. I politely looked down at others as "filled with the light
of Christ" *at best* and heathen non-Mormons at worst all the while
knowing they needed to accept Mormonism and the statutory rapist Joe
Smith or they would *never* reach the "highest degree of Heaven." My
God, I still can't even type those words, it pissed me off so much.

Good people *let* me progress. 

One of those people was a wonderful teacher working her hardest to make
a difference, who saw me for me, not my Mormonism. A woman I fell in
love with while still married and in love with my ex-wife at the time,
but in a totally different way, the woman I could not longer stay with,
who *begged* me not to "don't burst [their] bubbles" when I told her my
doubts and that I couldn't do it anymore.

I cheated, but I cheated with someone I truly loved and, to this day,
care for in a way few people will ever understand. Without her I could
*never* have married Doris and escaped the cult mind-fuck that is
Mormonism. Without her my sons would have no one to turn to with their
doubts about their Church, who, all but one, have decided to leave on
their own.

Things do seem to happen for a reason. Something less than complete
randomness seems to be a part of our existence, perhaps guiding it, who
knows. It's the not knowing that keeps us humane, and, I suppose,
willing to find a way to forgive even the worst of "sinners." I
certainly need to try, because others have done that for me.

And if I'm *completely* wrong and the Mormons are the "only correct
church on the face of the whole Earth" as South Park claims, well then I
will happily take my place in Mormon Hell. I do hope then that Jesus, my
imaginary friend that hurt like hell to lose, will let me ask him just
one question.

"What. The. Fuck?"

##  Tuesday, November 24, 2020, 8:12:32PM

Over coffee with my family here I arrived at something of a discovery
about what I actually believe. I believe in *not* knowing anything for
sure. Absolute surety produces the worst evils humanity has ever known.

The Scientology documentary is bringing home, once again, the objective
fact that the more people *know* things the worse they behave. My
religion isn't cynicism, it's "faith, but without a sure knowledge."

Here are just a few examples:

* Scientologists *know* they are reincarnated Thetans, therefore,
  children should be treated like adults.

* Some Hindus believe in reincarnation so absolutely that mothers have
  been caught murdering their children to "move them on to their next
  life". It's even mythologized.

* Christians obliterated millions during the crusades because they were
  sure Jews and Muslims were spawn of Satan. The Bible is full of
  accounts of killing "every man, woman, and child" to "purify" whatever
  promised land is the target.

* Scientists in the 50s were absolutely positive that certain people had
  to be sterilized to protect the gene-pool of the human race.

* Millions suffered and died at the hands of millions of others who
  *knew without any doubt* that Black people were just animals.

* Evangelicals commit atrocities because they know all they need is
  "God's grace" for forgiveness for *anything*. Trump becomes a
  manifestation of God's miracles on Earth since --- they believe ---
  "Jesus can work through such imperfect sinners" turning a vile
  autocrat into a warped, pussy-grabbing, whore-fucking, drugged mafioso
  manifestation of "God's goodness, grace, and power". There are no
  present consequences, only declaring "he is saved through the blood
  of Christ" and that is all that matters, to them.

* Muslims *knew* America was the devil as they prayed calmly flying
  airplanes into the twin towers. 

* I *knew* that homosexuality was a choice and not a product of natural
  human physiology just like those who tortured others under the banner
  of that same "truth" that led to shock-treatment and worse. (But I,
  and Obama, and Hilary, all changed our minds when we had more facts.)

* In [The Invention of Lying](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=The Invention of Lying) the main character's friends came to
  *know* that they had a "mansion in Heaven" and so quit their jobs on
  Earth to wait it out.

* Mormons *know* that salvation can only come to the dead if they spend
  thousands of hours being baptised "by proxy" for them (even if they
  are Holocaust victims).

* Mormon men hacked women and children to death in Mountain Meadows
  because the *knew* they were receiving direction from "the Lord"
  through their ecclesiastical leaders.

Here's the thing. You can be confident that something *is probably true*
and let it guide your decisions and life, but the doubt, the possibility
of being wrong, never certifying that *something is absolute*, preserves
you from sociopathic lunacy, no matter what your perceived reality. 

"What if this is it? What if this is the *only* time to spend with my
children, ever? I make every moment count as best I can."

"What if, maybe, just maybe, we *aren't* reincarnated even though I
believe strongly that it makes the most sense? Maybe I *shouldn't* kill
these infants just on the possibility along."

And so on.

This is really just the idea of "strong opinions, weakly held" on a
macro scale. It's the healthy amount of doubt that keeps us respectful of one another no
matter what, as horribly difficult as that is sometimes. It is also the
basis for the best epistemological tool we have: the scientific method.

Here's why: I refuse to believe the Earth is flat. There is just too
much objective evidence to the contrary. But there is also substantial
statistical probability that what we perceive as the Earth isn't even
real, in the sense of real that we use now. "What *is* real?" as
Morpheus asks. I am pretty damn sure that the Earth --- at least in our
present simulation running in someone's computer --- *is* round. Why is
it any crazier to say that "we live in a simulation" versus "we live on
a flat Earth"? It's crazier because of how we perceive and quantify
reality through the scientific method, which fundamentally depends on
observation and *never* no *not ever* says anything is absolutely,
positively true. The definition of a Law in science is that there is
overwhelming evidence of it, but not that it couldn't possibly, one day,
be overturned and proved different from what we thing. *Everything* is
up for questioning in science and that *is not demonized.* Asking "why?"
will get you promoted and advanced, not kicked out and given detention.

Bottom line: every time something *seriously* evil on a massive scale
has happened it was almost always accompanied with "true" testimony and
conviction for which people would fucking die, or worse, kill others.
Therefore, dogmatic surety about *anything* is not just dangerous, but
the source of the worst evils humanity has ever known.

##  Tuesday, November 24, 2020, 7:17:50AM

While working on a [simple command prompt
module](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/prompt) for the collection of best
practices for reading from the command line (I used to use `Scanner`
which is clearly unnecessary) I ran across
[`go-prompt`](https://github.com/c-bata/go-prompt) which is used by some
of the big Go applications like Kubernetes. It looks to have command
history support as well. Definitely worth a look if that support is
cross-platform.

After playing around with it a bit (specifically `http-request`) it
looks to me more of a REPL creator than a simple command-line prompt
utility, although maybe it has that as well and I just didn't find it,
either way it is *way* too heavy for 90% of the applications I create. 

##  Monday, November 23, 2020, 10:59:16PM

More than a little annoyed that PopOS broke my man page colors.

##  Monday, November 23, 2020, 4:55:51AM

I'm randomly annoyed at the sudden memory of a person who just kept my
"loaner" laptop and never contacted me at all after that, he was a
generally nice person but somehow didn't feel the need to return my
property even though we left on good terms.

What the fuck is *wrong* with people? *Good* people.

Sometimes evil has a nice smile on it. The people aren't evil, the ethos
of getting away with as much as possible, that somehow that makes you
smart, that people who commit fraud are somehow charismatic subjects of
movies to be celebrated. Trump is the epitome of this. There's nothing
smart about this thinking. It's fucking evil.

##  Sunday, November 22, 2020, 10:45:13AM

Now that the hard part of the `auth` tool is finished, the rest is just
clean up, like "closing" in the medical world. If I was a surgeon like
my buddy Mike from High School is now I would be handing off the rest to
a junior, but I don't mind. I need to get good and fast at it. It is
what keeps me from publishing so many things. I get the challenging hard
stuff done and then fade off and the end. Then, metaphorically, my
patient dies and never leaves the table. At least I just own that
about myself and try to work on it. 

The good news is that what results will be something I can use forever
to make coding anything with an Oauth2 authentication a breeze,
including simple shell scripts. I'm particularly proud of just being
able to use `curl` and still get all the automatically refreshing
ability that `config.Client()` gives. All the token refreshing happens
behind the scenes, but without writing in a heavier language like Go.
This is crucial to coding and testing Oauth2 clients as well as servers
and I imagine I will be using it a lot.

Stuff like `auth` is not sexy; it's not some sort of fancy game
development; it's not hacking (although I can think of tons of ways this
will make hacking easier by enabling quick shell scripts that would have
been hampered by the Oauth2 stuff before). No, `auth` is one of those
super boring things that *everyone* needs and no one wants to make, like
`curl` (and `libcurl`) that is used literally by everyone who uses the
Internet today. 

Can you name the person who created `curl`? Are they famous? They
fucking should be. Our entire world would not be as it is today without
this person's quiet contribution. *These* are the contributions I seek
to make, those that are appreciated by people like me who actually give
a damn about the engineers who are building our civilizations instead
of the "warriors" (to quote B'Elanna Torres) who get all the "glory".

People like me are hard to find. That's not arrogance. We are
*literally* hard to find because we usually have our noses in something
that isn't being broadcast to the world. We like attention but
don't usually seek it. That's for people like the decidedly
non-engineer types like Steve fucking Jobs to do while the Woz's build.
We need the Jobs' (unfortunately), but I'm a Woz, or at least I want to
be. [\@qmacro99](https://twitch.tv/qmacro99) from Twitch reminded us that [Dennis Ritchie](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Dennis Ritchie) (you
should fucking know who he is) died not just seven days after Jobs but
his passing was "eclipsed" because of it. Who had the greater
contribution to the world? The person who said on camera, "I've been
shameless in stealing good ideas" or the person that co-created C in
order to create the Unix operating system that Jobs stole (among many
other things)?

But things are changing though and even the `libcurl` guy is now live
streaming. So are a lot more engineering professionals who are far more
talented than I. The world *is* changing for the better because of
streaming and at least we have that, even though a few troll-monkeys
will inevitably throw shit because they just can't do it.  Being
reminded how mediocre you are really hurts. They have to do *something*.
The good people of the Internet will stick around and learn something. I
know I did, just last night from [Simon
Frey](https://twitter.com/eu_frey) who only has 121 followers on Twitter
but has produced some of the most important content I have *ever* read
on the Internet. Nothing Earth-shattering, just not found anywhere else.
Because he took the time to capture and share it with or without fame.
That's what we need more of today.

So, I guess I'm just taking a moment to realize what matters most, and
enjoying the silent comradery with amazing engineers, all of us
"building civilization" together in our own quiet workshops, taking an
occasional glance at the Trump/Kim Kardashian madness of the popular
world, and then quietly smiling and turning back to our work like Mr.
Horologist adjusting his glasses as he looks back at his watches.

There, I feel better.

##  Sunday, November 22, 2020, 2:38:33AM

I really need to take a full look at `context` again. I really never
liked them but they *are everywhere* these days.

##  Sunday, November 22, 2020, 2:26:19AM

Now that everything works for the `Authorize` flow --- integrated web
browser authorization and redirect and all --- it's time to look at how
all of this could be running to manage several services at the same
time, like in a chat bridge which is a very likely use case. I did hit a
blocking condition due to mutex conflicts near the end during testing,
so need to look closer.

One approach would be to just use mutexes on either the `Config`
collection of `App` structs, or on the `App` struct itself. The easiest
way to do this is to create accessor and mutator methods for all the
struct fields and even hide them behind the defined interface. Hiding
them incurs a lot more coding overhead, however, because now we can't
just marshal and unmarshal the JSON the same way.

We also have the entire issue of running just one HTTP server or more.
Just one makes best use of resource, but then we need to essentially
build a Redis table in memory to keep track of all the sessions and make
sure they get aged out over time. Any access, read or write to that
table must be surrounded by some sort of concurrency check or a channel
and an internal protocol.

Honestly, for something of this size I think the shared-memory model
works best. I know the saying, "don't share memory to communicate,
communicate to share memory" but it's an over complication in this
approach, I think. 

All I really have to do is lock the Sessions table for every write and
read using a `RWMutex`. In fact, if I do that I don't need to incur any
of the other overhead.

The embedded `oauth2` stuff doesn't have accessors so that would get
really hairy really fast. No, I need to think like a C programmer about
this.

##  Sunday, November 22, 2020, 2:00:06AM

I just have to write about what this dumb ass had to say on my YouTube
channel because it just makes me laugh so much and is *so* indicative of
the broken thinking and attitudes plaguing our world:

> [YouTube: Jason Perry] How to completely tank a twitch channel: go from teaching linux command-line and JavaScriqt to Go and Oath. Too bad you could care less...

*[That is verbatim from the chat log.]*

I have run into this attitude a few times now. People feign they are
joking but some are seriously pissed that suddenly I *dared* to not give
them a fucking free education with nothing in return only to have most
of them effective silently drop out leaving me talking to the howling
empty wind, like one of my "cozy" live streams lately.

Here's the thing. I can risk teaching a bunch of random people who I
have no idea what they will do with the skills, or I can share my skills
with those I mentor after an application interview to be sure they are
the kind of people a fucking want to work with. And I'll be damned if
I'm going to give out that knowledge for free with the climate we are in
right now. Too many fucking Sith Lord / Trump Supporters out there and
I'm in this war for the right side.

So no, I'm not going to hand over this knowledge to just anyone anymore,
at least not my best skills. Those will go to my employer and those I
*know* will put them to good use. Like my beloved friend who just landed
his *first* job for \$100,000 after being with me for about three years.
I'll take that shit over some whiny anonymous YouTuber any day.

I'm still doing things for everyone, just not the things they *thing* I
should. It's like that skit with the guy complaining about the airline
flight and the other dude turns to him and says, "You're flying at 3000
feet in a metal tube, have some gratitude for Christ's sake."

The software I'm working on right now will have wide-reaching benefit to
thousands of people. Keeping a few hundred Twitch subscribers happy is a
pittance by comparison. 

So know, anonymous fuck-tard, take what you get and *maybe* if you had a
little patience and intelligence you could actually learn something by
watching the 10 hours of streaming I do every *fucking* day.

There. Better.

And you gave away a lot by dissing Go like that. Just proves you're
nothing but a troll and script kiddy. Imma focus on the *real* hackers.

And as much as I just needed to rant that out, I do realize there are a
ton of people who appreciate what I'm doing. Like everything in life
right now, it's more important to focus on them, always. In fact, having
a troll or two is a good sign. It means people are finding the stream
still even though I just code on it these days. That's all I care about.
The elite will see it for what it is and learn. The rest will enjoy
their mediocre lives.

##  Sunday, November 22, 2020, 12:29:10AM

If I get burned one more time by forgetting to put a `*` in front of the
type for a receiver Imma scream, or something. It is one of the hardest
bugs to track when you don't know what you are looking for because
instead of altering the struct being pointed to, you are altering a copy
of it that dies when it goes out of scope. Typical pointer problems.
Thankfully they aren't too bad in Go.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 10:25:49PM

Holy shit. My fan just took off from just one Restream preview window
being opened and when I closed it everything is fine. Must have hit some
kind of threshold.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 8:52:11PM

Struggling with how to handle the possibility of multiple redirections
happening at the same time. At one point I had each `App` have their own
port so as to not conflict. But since they all have to do the same thing
I think having a map with the `state` in it would be better mostly
because it is wasteful to fire up multiple HTTP servers when one is fine
so long as it knows about the different sessions it is dealing with.

One way to deal with it is to timeout the entries if no one asks about
them within a given amount of time. I do think `state` should be the
index key for those because you might theoretically have more than one
redirect in different flows and need to make sure they line up.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 7:01:56PM

Live coding has really caused me to do all the things I have been
meaning to and just been putting off. For example, just the tweaking of
simple stuff like `rulerformat` makes reading vim status *so* much
easier (and frankly *way* better than that fucking airline shit, which I
did play around with for a while, and then came to my senses).
Ironically, the transparency made me create a better configuration all
around.

The reason, I believe, is because everything I am doing is to make it
easier for a non-initiate to understand and therefore I end up making
things easier for me as well.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 6:55:23PM

So after a request to fix `screenkey`, which after what looks like a
full hour of futzing with it (for the better) I found this great
[documentation on
it](https://github.com/wavexx/screenkey/blob/master/README.rst). Turns
out the thing is written in Python. Anyway, TIL that if you hold down
two of the special keys (control, alt, or command) that it turns it off
temporarily so that passwords are not printed to the screen. Obviously,
that requires a high level of attentiveness. But I think if I do it that
I could get used to it --- especially when I'm doing a lot of note
taking and don't need to make all of that visible. Like just now.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 5:47:37PM

I really need to get `screenkey` working in a way that is safe. Ideally
it would shut off if certain applications were running, or if I had
certain scenes set in obs. I do have a good way to turn the screen off
these days so that is not as big of a deal, but it would be absolutely
ideal if anything from my password manager never printed. I need to test
it because I don't think cutting and pasting things ever gets sent to
`screenkey` in the first place. Definitely need to add it to my *Focus
Mode* streams.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 5:09:39PM

Even though I fucking hate Dev.to because of their shitty, unnecessary
dependency on JavaScript to read anything on their *forum* site (Tim
Berners-Lee is wincing even now to learn about it), I did find this nice
[simple
benchmark](https://dev.to/pmalhaire/concatenate-strings-in-golang-a-quick-benchmark-4ahh)
I was too lazy to do myself. Long story short, always use `+` to
concatenate strings when you can.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 4:26:30PM

I was typing yet another `if err != nil` when I remembered seeing a tool
somewhere about that. While off researching it I looked through the
rather long list of [Go tools](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/tools) and
realized I *really* need to do a meticulous review of every tool there
is. For example, `goimports`, which is now built into `vim-go` by
default has saved me *hours* in fixing my `imports` section. Now I don't
even have to think about it. I also just remembered there *is* a way to
move packages and resolve all the package name changes. It's `gomvpkg`.
I still haven't found anything for `nil` but the other stuff is worth
mentioning.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 9:31:38AM

I feel like I'm always that guy that obsesses about something that is
broken with an API enough to want to do my own. Just realizing that the
current `oauth2` standard Go package has nothing in it about
*refresh_token* expiration (not `access_token` which is fine). There is
a built in assumption that refresh tokens don't expire. I noticed that
the Restream API even sends the expiry of the refresh token as well as
the access token, but the Go package has no concept of it, and neither
does the built in token refreshing in the returned `http.Client` it
gives. The place that I would check doesn't even return an error so I
have to check for random unauthorized errors from the client and then
trigger a new `.Authorize()` call.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 4:53:17AM

While writing all the Oauth2 stuff it occurred to me that, well, this
has been around a long time and *surely* someone else has already
created a way to debug Oauth2 flow stuff (that requires a web server).
Sure enough <https://oauthdebugger.com/> exists and does exactly that.
No need to create my own mock server. I don't suffer from
not-invented-here syndrome *that* badly. God I wish I would have found
that last week, but this journey has been extremely educational.

Except for when I just tried it looks like it is only for testing
*servers* not client implementations. 

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 4:17:39AM

I find myself once again annoyed that I cannot *write* YAML reliably in
Go (or any language for that matter). The complex nature of YAML with
comments and such makes it impossible to do anything with.

I know the right thing to do is just to edit the JSON (like all VSCode
plugins seem to allow). But I just kind wish YAML did it. 

TOML isn't any better.

@taniwah3 reminds me that YAML --- the full specification --- actually
allows for the execution of code and really should never be trusted. He
mentioned needing a spec for "light YAML" and I could not agree more.
That kind of thing would be short work once PEGN is complete. Hell, the
parser would even be automatically generated from the spec. Looks like
something to add to my wish list.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 3:42:33AM

Added more to the [`gotmpl`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/gotmpl) wish.

Also, I am realizing that base64 encoding the cache files for `auth` is
really just a waste of time because if anyone sees it they can get the
secrets from it anyway. So rather than test and debug all that just
going to skip it for now and put that effort into getting an *actual*
encrypted cache working later.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 2:05:22AM

I'm really fighting the draw of OOP right now. Like having been in a
cult. "It is me or the cult?" I'm inclined to put all the `auth` package
functions as methods on the new `Collection` struct. Ugh, it just makes
too much sense. I feel another branch coming on.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 1:55:28AM

After a fair amount of research it looks like I still have to maintain
some form of cached key generated from the YubiKey, so that complicates
matters a bit more than I want to inject into this project at the
moment. I really need to look around more for high-level Go modules that
manage this stuff from the terminal rather than some fucking Python
graphical application (like `yubikey-manager` does).

So, for now, I'm back to my medium-grade obfuscation, which is really
just client secrets and tokens in flat text on disk, but that is what
all web browsers do, so it isn't *that* bad. I'll have to quell my
security OCD for the moment so I can get something done. I went into
this just wanting to grab the Websockets chat messages from Restream,
and here I am off in the woods looking up `cgo` libs for security
devices. I do love a good rabbit hole, after all they are the best way
to learn --- especially when there really isn't any kind of time
constraint on this other than my own. While I do beat myself up for not
getting shit done oft times, I do have to take a moment to celebrate how
intensely fortunate I am that I even have the fucking drive to go down
*any* rabbit hole. Just a cursory glance of whatever everyone else is
doing on this fine Friday night proves my point. I'm so glad so much of
that doesn't draw me anymore. I would rather study the FIDO2
specification than *anything* else right now. Okay, that is pretty
demented. \*sign\*

One *really* good thing that came out of that entire rabbit hole was
putting everything into a single-file collection. I would have
implemented the whole thing without doing that before, but the need to
have everything in a file is what allows the whole file to eventually be
encrypted. So yeah.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 1:08:04AM

I'm a bit conflicted whether to use YubiKey (FIDO2 U2F) in my little
`auth` module because doing so automatically adds a `cgo` dependency
removing built in ability to compile cross-platform (as Go allows by
default, one of its greatest strengths). I figure I'll get it working
and then add some sort of build parameter for those who do not want to
do this. Besides, they may have covered this in the `libfido2` Go
module that wraps the C library. I see a bunch of platform specific
stuff in there. I do know that building will require installing the
`libfido2-dev` package on Linux at least, which leads me to believe the
build is no longer truly cross-platform. We'll see.

##  Saturday, November 21, 2020, 12:21:15AM

Found this interesting [blog
post](https://blog.madewithdrew.com/post/statically-linking-c-to-go/)
from a self-proclaimed "non C coder" who managed to use cgo's static
linking despite how spread out all the information is about it. It's
definitely on my todo list and makes me even more sure that Go is the
right general purpose, statically compiled, C-compatible, strict-typed
language to recommend. The level of ease with which you can include C
code is just astounding. You lose cross-compilation ability, but you
lose that anyway when incorporating C libraries for anything. The world
really hasn't latched onto this, it seems, like they have to Python C
stubs, but then the Python world realizes how easy it is to wrap C code
with Go I have a feeling the momentum will just continue. NumPy,
TensorFlow, etc. all make Python popular only because Python has good
and full bindings for them. But it's only a matter of time before Go
catches up. All the ability is there. I imagine Rust will be a better
pick for most *really* high performance stuff, but I need to check out
the garbage collection tweaks and tuning in cgo before making any
conclusion there.

And god do I hate C++, here's yet another reason to hate it:

> cgo can link against C libraries, but not C++ (see swig for this)

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 11:37:32PM

I'm going to spend my Friday night playing with symmetric cipher
encryption and the combining of all `auth` configuration data into a
single file. The more I get to thinking about all this caching stuff the
more it makes sense to just do it right and make sure nothing ever touch
disk unencrypted. I'll at least write the code for doing the encryption
and combine all the data into a single file.

I'm glad this occurred to me the other night with someone on the stream
from the hacker industry. He really brought home my original concern
about creating something --- everything --- in zero-trust environment
and how important that is today. It's the same way I approached the
infrastructure I helped build out for IBM that managed compliance
auditing on thousands of systems. I used GPG for all that so that
nothing hit disk that wasn't encrypted. Like anything, it could be
hacked with enough focus, but this was a *serious* inconvenience instead
of leaving everything on disk in the clear.

So yeah, I've never been a fan of writing anything in the clear to disk,
not even secure shell keys, which is one of the amazing things about
KeePassXC because of its `ssh-agent` integration I can have the
convenience of a public key without a passphrase because the application
must be running in order use any of the key pairs even without a
passphrase.

Everything that will use the `auth` package I'm writing will ultimately
be the same sort of thing. It also means that for applications that are
going to be making regular API calls will need a daemon that I can
interact with from the command line. The running service will only need
the passphrase once to start enough to decrypt the data store and then
from there stuff can live in memory, then I can dump the decryption key
from memory. That's the best I can do. If a hacker gets access to
memory, and pull stuff out of it, there's nothing that can save you at
that point.

There is another option I want to research a bit tonight. I need to see
what level FIDO U2F I might have in my YubiKey and just use that. That
would allow there to be three different levels of encoding and security,
flat (base64), symmetric encryption with a passphrase, and YubiKey with
encryption. These are the same (almost) as KeePassXC. 







##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 5:50:25PM

This week I learned that one person I helped for several years started
their first tech job for \$100,000.

But, in stark contrast, another former member who left on their own (and
is now banned for lots of reasons) sought me out after being away for
more than two months.

Why?

To share with me their demented versions of what I wrote in confidence
to their parents to try and get him some help as they chose to leave.

This entire story is why I'm leaving mentoring as a main income. It's
also why I have had application interviews for more than two years. 

This person got in without any evaluation back in the day when they were
just referred by another member. Had I evaluated them, there is *no
fucking way* I ever would have let them in, mostly because of the
horrible parental dynamic. One of the parents is a particularly abusive
asshole.

This child does have serious learning disabilities. They are completely
obvious to any educator, which is abundantly obvious from the stories
over the years that this child shared with me about their "horrible"
public school teachers. The child was constantly blaming the teachers
for everything and sharing with me about it in our sessions. They were
clearly parroting the words and tones and attitudes of the parents they
chose to model. I would nod and try to get past it, but it ripped me up.

This family lives in the epitome of denial and entitlement. I should
have removed them much earlier, but I felt since they were here already
I needed to stick it out --- turning away other applicants --- as best I
could, which always fucks me over in the end, mostly because shit-heads
like this family always find a way to associate some fictitious greed on
my part. 

Anyone who knows me knows how fucking stupid it is to even insinuate I'm
out for the money. I've been offered jobs for \$250,000 from executive
consultants for Christ's sake. I *hate* when people hit me with that as
if to say:

"Why didn't you take it? You are stupid for not taking it. What's wrong
with you! You're obviously lying."

That is *exactly* how these fuck-faces project their own values on me to
deal with their own cognitive dissonance. I *could* pull out the actual
email and show them, but I don't. Instead, I figure out how I can get
these people out of my life as fast as possible, with the least amount
of communication as possible, so it doesn't affect other areas
areas of my life, including the amazing people I've helped, and am
continuing to help who just *get* it.

Suffice it to say, this parent is one of the most abusive, abrasive,
uncaring, disconnected, clueless parents I have ever had to work with
(but not abusive like one other one who has scarred me for life watching
how they dealt with their child). The entire tone of "You have some
*explaining* to do" was just seething with rage that didn't seek to truly
understand *why* their "loved" one was having trouble and how they could
seek further help. It wasn't one to apologize for being late *for every
fucking payment* even though they clearly had the money.

These *few* parents are the very reason I have such high standards for
admission into my community now, and sadly, they are the reason I'm
leaving main mentoring. I can do so much more for the world than deal
with even the risk of this shit. No wonder so many public and private
school teachers leave the profession within five years. 

First of all, I've never even fucking met this parent at all. Not even
spoken to them on the phone. Not a single fucking email. They just
didn't feel the need. They are absolutely, completely and totally absent
in their child's affairs including my mentoring community. 

After they left for reasons related to money and boredom, a word this
child would use for lack of any internal motivation to learn *anything*
asking to "just play Minecraft" and worse. I would do my best to walk
through every line of code they could, but they would complain
the whole time, *unlike every other member of my current learning community.*

So as they are leaving I shared *in confidence* my observations to help
them find help for someone with an obviously serious learning
disability. Rather than respond positively to what I wrote they torn
into me with, "You had better explain yourself" at which point it was
*completely* obvious that these completely disconnect parents had no
intention of doing *anything* substantial for their child, nor having
anything close to a productive conversation. So I didn't.

The parent started harassing me by phone messages and email, which I
just ignored. I had people to help. I wasn't giving this shit-bag a
second of my time. They had stolen an opportunity for another to be in
my community over the years. I have turned away about a dozen during
that time because I was full. But no. I'm the one *stealing* their money
and time.

Several months past. The harassment stopped, or so I thought.

Then, completely randomly, the child found me on Discord and shared their
interpretation of their parents' interpretation of what I had shared in
confidence.

> Why did you say mean things to my mom when I left? It's not like we
> didn't give you thousands of dollars just for you to say "he needs too
> much help" and not teach me anything else besides stupid codecombat.

There are so many things wrong with that I cannot cover them all without
giving away the identity. 

First of all, they *begged* to play CodeCombat instead of learning to
code from the terminal and to get this person to do *anything* was so
hard. I walked them through every CodeCombat session and encouraged them
to solve their own problems by helping them ask their own questions.
CodeCombat was the *only* thing *they* wanted to do besides fuck around
in Minecraft and do typing tests all day. But no, I wasn't "teaching"
them. 

*Teach* is a fucking horrible transitive verb. No one teaches anyone.
There are only learners and those helping them learn. Friere makes that
point abundantly clear even if the entire fucking educational universe
just doesn't get it.

The first words on most sessions with this person were "sigh" and when I
asked what was wrong they would say, "I just don't feel like coding. I'm
kinda bored" or "just my school sucks because..."  They hadn't done any
coding over the week or sought any of their own projects. Let's just say
that I have *zero* patience for anyone who claims to be bored today,
child or adult.

I *tried* to be understanding and patient. I really did. After all, this
person --- like so many others --- is a casualty of a system that forces
Friere's notion of "banker education" on unsuspecting victims. They
think they are "passive receptacles" to receive the wisdom and knowledge
only the *teacher* is allowed to learn and then regurgitate.

All I could do was disengage. It always hurts to do that, but there is
just no hope for that family and their approach to *everything* about
their family dynamics. I can't *fix* them and it is not my job to do so.

So I said this instead:

> Yeah that is not at all what I said, nor is any of it true, but I
> don't expect you to ever understand that, nor your parents. I wish you
> well, just not in my community.

Sure I wanted to ask how he even came to know about that *confidential*
email to his parents about sensitive issues I would never bring up in
front of him, but no. I just stopped.

One of the parents claims to be a successful self-help author, which
just makes it entirely comically sad. If I said the name some of those
reading might even know this person. It is a *fucking joke* that this
human being has a book of any kind on the topic. One thing that became
overwhelmingly clear was that this person has no *fucking* clue what is
going on with their child. Hell, I had to *convince* them that their
child needed *a fucking computer* after not getting one for over two
years. They *clearly* had the money. They just didn't want to spend it
on their child's critical learning. 

The worst part is that this asshole has no *real* intention of ever
finding out what is *really* going on with their child, that much was
also clear. They just fight to maintain their cognitive dissonance about
the situation to make themselves able to go on television and make
outrageously false claims with a calm hubris that --- to me --- is just
downright demonic. 

If you suck as a parent (like I often do) *just fucking own your
failure* instead of doubling down on how awesome you are so you can sell
your fucking book. Who are you, Trump? Oh right, they probably *did*
vote for him. They are the type. *This* is how society is failing, and
most don't even see it, mostly because they just can't or won't. We live
in a age of the worst kind of denial, and we might not survive it. 

Did I mention this family *always* paid one or two weeks late, after the
next block started. Tried to get away with being the *only* people
without a computer at home for their child. Tried to be the only people
to pay as late as possible. Tried to get away with whatever the fuck.
This mentality is *killing* humanity. In fact, I had to start a policy
about early payment just to cater to lowest common denominator people
like this. Zero respect for others. Zero shits to give about anyone but
themselves. In Trump's words about scamming people out of money he owed
them through frivolous lawsuits, "They just don't understand business"
or worse "They're losers, all of them."

So to these parents (and to all the millions of others like them) I just
have one last thing to say:

*You* are the losers and the world is *sick* of you.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 2:50:27PM

Top skills to search for, in order:

1. gRPC
1. GraphQL
1. Websockets
1. REST
1. Oauth2
1. Go programming
1. PostgreSQL
1. Redis

There are a lot of alternatives to these things, but these are the ones
I *want* to work with because they don't suck.

Linux terminal will be a given. A lot will include NodeJS, but I'm only
looking at those if they are migrating off of that horrible piece of
shit.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 2:46:28PM

Just posted that note and *boom* already stuff popping up on it. It
seems like the entire tech Internet is a-buzz with chatter about gRPC
right now. This one was literally [posted
yesterday](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/grpc-server-side-streaming-with-go/).
The fact something is posted *on freecodecamp.org* about gRPC shows you
what I mean. It is quickly becoming mandatory learning, just like Go in
2014 when I made everyone learn it at [skilstak]{.spy}.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 2:20:12PM

I want to [code Go gRPC applications](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=code Go gRPC applications).

Had a nice conversation with a recruiter about the *Cloud Platform
Software Developer* position that he reached out to me about. I get
contacted by recruiters frequently, but this one was intriguing mostly
because of how the position was described. It *really* nailed the
collection of skills I'm personally the most interested in (at the
moment). I've written at length about why that title is so significant
to me, and why I think there needs to be a collection of titles that I
keep on hand that frequently mean the same thing. For example, I think
that *Devops Developer* (which is a pretty bad title) and *Cloud
Developer* often contain the same skills, but the problem is that they
almost always involve AWS/Azure/GCP, which I really am not interested
in.

So here's what struck me during that conversation: a way to isolate
*every* potential position as quickly as possible in once sentence.
Here's how it might sound in conversation:

"So what are you looking for in a position?"

"I really just want to write gRPC code in Golang."

There you have it. That one simple sentence adds laser focus to not only
the positions that fit what I want, but to all the tech and skills I
need to prioritize. I just have to ask myself, "How will this help me
write and deploy gRPC application in Go?" to make the decision about how
much of my time to spend on it to prepare for such positions. So, for example,

Me: "Do I need to learn Kubernetes?"

Also me: "Not really, just enough to know how to submit stuff to it,
unless of course you want to use it to manage your own home lab of old
computers you've clustered together just to practice writing gRPC apps,
that you cannot *really* test without a hardware cluster (VMs just don't
feel as nice)."

And another one ...

"Do I need to learn Docker better?"

"Hell, yes, Docker and Git are tools you should have mastered at the
highest level. They are fundamental to *any* modern software
engineering."

And so on. The point is that *everything* hinges off of Go and gRPC, the
end. It saves everyone gobs of time because positions that require
NodeJS --- that do not also involve gRPC as a *primary* skill --- just
won't fit and I can eliminate them from the search. This is a good way
to filter the "Backend Engineer/Developer" positions from the
non-service-provider cloud development positions. 

Another amazing thing this little filter accomplishes is the *size* of
the company. Not many small shops that struggle to pay people and
provide health insurance are going to be deploying gRPC. This tech only
shows itself in larger organizations with a bunch of moving,
microservices parts. So just by saying I'm only interested in gRPC I
automatically eliminate a *ton* of companies that I would not be
interested in helping.

In a similar way, positions that are heavy on gRPC are also more likely
to be building their own internal clouds thereby removing yet another
dependency on a centralized cloud provider bringing diversity and
decentralization to our overall human IT intrastructure, something I
really believe in viscerally at my core. I just can't stomach promoting
more and more dependency on three major cloud providers. It's bad for
humanity. Focusing on gRPC --- particularly with Kubernetes as a
secondary priority --- in my search almost guarantees all the positions
will match this ethical priority of mine, but not always. People still
use `k8s` on centralized cloud providers, but it does really filter a
lot of cloud-dependent companies out of the potential positions pool.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 2:08:21PM

So [\@markamatu](https://twitch.tv/markamatu) from the stream mentioned
something Stephen King has written in [On Writing: A Memoir of the
Craft](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=On Writing: A Memoir of the
Craft). He suggests writing "with your door closed" but editing "with
your door open" so that you can focus on the one and get feedback on the
other. This definitely applies to my case, and, who knows, maybe someone
else will take up the streaming as well to make their own contribution.
I imagine a world of work-from-home techs doing a lot more constant live
streaming as the world's software and organizations become more open
overall and more companies are okay with people sharing what they are
doing with the world.

Another YouTuber, Vasrias, says it this way, "Talking about your
thoughts, but coding in silence."

As usual, the answer is likely a balance between the two, but that's a
balance I've been unable to achieve for a simple reason: my sound board
sucks.

That's right. I had a nice one long ago that burned out. This crappy
little one won't even pipe desktop and mic into the same channel to
monitor from headphone or studio monitor speakers. That's important
because, as I wrote earlier, mixing music and voice is always a bad
idea. With the right setup, I just turn down the speakers so I don't get
feedback here, and swing the mic into place to switch quickly to "rubber
duck mode".

I'll have a better board on Sunday so we'll see. Being really proficient
at switching between those modes is a must for anyone wanting to get
into this stuff, for fun or profit.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 1:58:43PM

So the new "cozy term" streams are working out *for me* for some it is
less valuable than "rubber ducking" while I'm doing the coding. Here's
the thing I need to figure out: when to do either (or both)? So here's
me just thinking through some of the pros and cons of each:

### Rubber Ducking Mode

Pros:

* People can hear exactly what I'm thinking as I think it and get some
  insights into ways they might approach their own problems
* I can better respond than just typing in chat

Cons:

* Fucking exhausting for long periods of time
* Seriously messes with my sleep patterns because for some reason
  talking makes me stay up more
* A lot of important conclusions I make never get captured in notes or
  anywhere because I broke through what was blocking me
* Have to deal with lag issues a lot

### Cozy Term Mode

Pros:

* Helps me *really* focus, more than without the "cozy"
* It's how I code normally when not streaming
* I get *so* much more stuff done, period
* I can complete more difficult projects 'cuz more focus
* People enjoy having the stream "in the corner" while working
* Can keep the stream on longer for people to conversate
* More thought goes into what I choose to respond to because I know I'm
  going to have to write it out
* More of what I think and conclude gets captured in my notes

Cons:

* People watch long pauses of nothing happening on the screen while I
  program stuff in my head
* I ignore people a lot more because I am so focused
* Absolutely no direct instruction going on, just learning by watching
* Chatting my responses is exhausting in a different way
* More of what I think and conclude gets captured in my notes

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 12:42:29PM

TIL there's a package called `term` (used to be `terminal`) that takes
care of all the tough stuff:

```
* Variables
* func GetSize(fd int) (width, height int, err error)
* func IsTerminal(fd int) bool
* func ReadPassword(fd int) ([]byte, error)
* func Restore(fd int, oldState *State) error
* type EscapeCodes
* type State
```

Ugh, I cannot believe I was still using Ioctl for so much of that stuff.
Don't be me. User `term` from the start.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 4:52:47AM

```go
_ = something // shuts up compaints about not being used
```

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 4:08:32AM

Found this nice
[Gist](https://gist.github.com/bbengfort/ee6d3bda44b8cc8d10a26f66be9ced70)
from a guy doing essentially the same thing as `auth` but in a simpler
form and without any encryption or even encoding, just all JSON. Still
interesting to see that same approach. I like how he builds on the idea
of having a `.Token()` method (same as the `oauth2` package
`TokenProvider` interface) and then just injects interactivity if the
token for some reason is not available in the cache. I'm a little leery
of injection like that, however, because if you want to allow disabling
interactivity, say, to enable a non-blocking application that just logs
failures, then you would be unable to do that easily.

Instead I think `auth.Data` (which I will probably rename to
`auth.Config` just for consistency with all the other stuff) should just
implement the `TokenProvider` interface so that it can be used in place
of `oauth2.Token` when needed since it does also return an `error` to be
checked. Then the caller can decide what to do if the `Token` isn't
available, prompt or whatever.

I'm a bit annoyed that he calls it "Authentication" when it is just
"Authorization". I found a good [thread about
this](https://gist.github.com/bbengfort/ee6d3bda44b8cc8d10a26f66be9ced70)
that made me chuckle a bit. The Oauth2 spec goes to great lengths to
make sure only the word "authorization" is ever used in conjunction with
anything Oauth2 does.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 3:26:49AM

Apparently Google has an "advanced protection program" to "keep
dissidents, politicians, and activists safe" that I really want to read
about. I still don't trust them for one second.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 3:14:22AM

So `auth` has become primarily about safe storage of all my
authentication data (not passwords, per se). And
[\@taniwha3](https://twitch.tv/taniwha3) and I were talking in chat
about how to secure the stuff on disk in a zero-trust way. We got to
talking about ways to encrypt (not just encode) and I realized this is a
project I can stretch my YubiKey skills with. He mentioned [FIDO
U2F](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=FIDO U2F) is the way to go.
Also hearing about Google's "titan key" for the first time. Apparently,
FIDO U2F is only supported on the newer keys, so I have to check mine.
Been meaning to get one that uses regular USB instead of the smaller
USB3 form factor as well.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 2:41:57AM

Looks like there's another [great tutorial on Oauth2 in
Go](https://tutorialedge.net/golang/go-oauth2-tutorial/) that includes a
complete server implementation. I'm glad I looked at it because, even
though it is targeted at managing clients on the server there is code
for keeping track of tokens and clients that I might be able to
integrate into something that a command line client app can use. Lines
of code like the following make me pause and thing I need to fully read
about them before creating my own store, even though I would like my
`auth.Data` to be larger in scope than *just* Oauth2.

```go
manager := manage.NewDefaultManager()
clientStore := store.NewClientStore()
```

I think for now I just need to get a specific client working with
Restream.io without focusing on the mock endpoints and such. I'll still
use `auth` to manage the `auth.Data` just so I have someplace to put my
tokens and such. Humm, I wonder if the Go package manages local token
storage already. I need to research that.

##  Friday, November 20, 2020, 1:59:40AM

Why are hoodies so damn comfortable? Wearing one with the medieval music
on makes me feel like a monk or something, a coding monk. Lol. Okay, now
I'm laughing at my own jokes in my own log.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 5:57:05PM

Another way that I can contribute in ways that benefit corporations as
well as the world is to get them *off* of AWS/Azure/GCP dependency. It's
a point of professional pride for me to support those who can to "roll
their own" systems and architectures. There's nothing wrong with people
who use cloud providers. I certainly do. But it is a better personal
contribution to the world if the positions I take are helping companies
and organizations of all kinds to drop their dependency on the
monopolies as much as possible, or at least to make it more of an
indirect dependency (Kubernetes is opensource, but influenced by Google,
but so is Go).

Another benefit of such opportunities is that I don't have to learn or
deal with AWS and any of its crappy dashboards, of those of other cloud
providers, by the way. I can focus uniquely on getting cloud
applications written and deploying them to internal Kubernetes clouds.
That's my target core expertise, which is nice because it is *entirely*
in line with exactly what I built for IBM.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 5:24:03PM

*Cloud Software Platform Developer* is the title I recently heard for a
position that perfectly describes the skills I seek to do on a daily
basis for any kind of full-time employer. Here's the job description:

* Go, gRPC, REST for cloud-native applications
* Management of data center physical infrastructure (servers/arrays/switches)
* Virtualization and containerization with Docker, K8S, Istio
* Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills
* Innovative thinker who can lead architecture and development
* Passion for learning, programming, automation, and analytics
* Agile development (Scrum, Kanban)
* Test automation (unit, integration, system) 
• Outstanding verbal and written communication skills
* Team player who with demonstrated ability to collaborate across teams and organization

I love that they don't even mention the essentials like Linux. They are
just assumed.

As the recruiters contact me with different positions and I have been
searching for different ones on my own it is clear that the industry
doesn't know what to call all the new positions that are emerging in the
"backend" space that aren't the backend of anything. 

Notice the following are *not* included:

* GraphQL
* Oauth2
* NodeJS
* AWS/Azure/GCP

The reason these important technologies are not present is because what
you are coding usually doesn't have a front-end to talk to. This is the
shit I *live* to code. It's what I did for IBM *en masse* and look
forward to doing for someone else.

A particularly important distinction is between "Senior Backend Software
Engineer" and the stuff dealing with "Cloud Software Platform
Development". I've heard some call it "deep end" but that has a lot of
meanings to different people.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 12:53:58PM

I have noticed that I write better code when live streaming in *music
and code* mode (without voice). Because I can't just talk through what
I'm doing I have to write it down that slows my thought process down in
the best way to keep from doing things that I have to back-out later.
It's not just about not being distracted by voice and those on the
stream. It's about composing better thoughts all around. Plus there is
the calming music factor.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 12:10:01PM

I need to check out [`esh`](https://github.com/jirutka/esh) for basic
templates that can safely use the shell directly.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 12:03:04PM

I'm a little conflicted at the moment about whether to use base64 now
and encrypted file formats later or to just use the encrypted stuff now.
As soon as I start thinking about encryption my mind goes down the
rabbit hole of where to manage the single sign-on password:

* Do I run a daemon (like `ssh-agent`) that has it stored in memory and make `auth` just
  call into that daemon to get the data?

* Do I force the user to enter the password for *any* use of `auth`?

All of this seems like overkill since web browsers certainly do not do
any of that storing this data in the clear, but then again browsers
never contain the `client_secret` since that is always stored
server-side in the three-leg Oauth2 approach.

Then again, when creating a terminal application that used
3-legged-Oauth2 the user needs to create an *individual* application
registry with the service in order to do so. Saving the `client_secret`
value in a flat file is no less safe than storing an SSH private key
without a passphrase, a practice that is done all the time by
security-conscious professionals simply because it allows things like
`git` to work without typing in a passphrase every time.

Nope, no encryption until there is a need for it, but I should
definitely have it as an option for security conscious applications that
might be running on Internet-facing services.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 4:57:21AM

It occurred to me that Go is actually the perfect language to write a
little `gotmpl` utility that reads from a collection of cached
templates (both `text` and `html`). Sometimes all I want is the lower of
Go's templating system for random things and usually just want to
combine them with some YAML or JSON or just a list of stuff on the
command line.

There's too many cool things to build and too little time. I need to
tell someone about that so they can make it and I don't have to.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 4:18:20AM

I want to create a bash script or Go utility for my favorite methods to
add to a simple data struct:

* `String() string` - the `Stringer` interface as JSON
* `JSON() []byte` - compressed JSON buffer
* `Print()` - `fmt.Println()` of the string JSON
* `Parse(jsn []byte) error` - `json.Unmarshal()` wrapper
* `Load(path string) error` - `ioutil.ReadFile()` then `Parse()`

I should probably also make something that creates the `Example*` test
cases as well. Actually, I should just do one `ExampleData()` (or
whatever) and then just include a bunch of examples of using all the
related methods.

Maybe just a macro would be better than a generator because there is
nothing really dependent on the rest of the code.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 3:53:49AM

While doing the `auth.Data` struct and all the reading and writing and
saving and simple example testing I realize it would be a good exercise
to put add with the rest of the [language
challenges](https://rwx.gg/lang/cha), which reminds me I still need to
port all those others over there from the original Python days of
[SkilStak]{.spy}.

##  Thursday, November 19, 2020, 2:27:58AM

So it looks like it's worth it to go with the `golang.org/x/oauth2`
package and see there that goes. In fact, it already has an
`oauth2.Config` struct that I can embed and give names to that I can
cache in locally retrievable ways. Still thinking of the best long-term
solution for all of that and how secure I want to make it.

I mean, if someone has access to your account they are already going to
be able to do all kinds of things to most people. The average person
will have at least one private key in their `.ssh` and `.gpg` that will
already be compromised. The `KeePassXC` does protect you somewhat from
that, but a skilled hacker might even be able to grab the private keys
from the RAM of the `ssh-agent`.

What I'm saying, I think, is that if things as sensitive as that are as
open as that for an average user then I simply don't have to fret about
a simple Oauth2 token --- or even client secret --- being saved in a
file. By the way, web browsers obviously don't lock up all the tokens
they cache without any other authentication required to use them. That
was the whole point of Oauth2 protocol to begin with.

I feel much better. JSON files will do just fine for this application.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 5:44:50PM

I love that `git config --global pull.ff only` is a thing now. I used to
always hate resolving the ugly merge conflicts that would sneak in.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 4:29:45PM

Just taking a moment to enjoy the fact that I do have at least one
super-power: tech learning and research. I can find information in
seconds that takes others minutes just from the use of [Lynx, the text
terminal](). Beyond that because everything I do is in the terminal my
eyes (and brain) have become so accustomed to processing the input in a
consistent, noise-less way that I can read and scan the information in
fraction of the time if I had to look it up through graphics or books
and adapt to all the different graphical and writing styles.

It's not a secret that the best technologists in the world (based on
productivity and quality) are also the fastest researchers and learners
in the world. It's so sad that so few people ever understand this or
find the motivation to do what it takes to master this skills.

One more thing, when a period of intense learning focus is needed
putting some comfortable earplugs in is every bit as good as what I
imagine taking drugs would be.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 4:16:31PM

Just would [this amazing Oauth2
walkthrough](https://fusionauth.io/blog/2020/10/22/securing-a-golang-app-with-oauth/).
It's definitely the best resource I have found on the entire Internet
for setting this stuff up in Golang as well as using at least one Oauth2
provider that is not specific to any give service.

The main take-away from reading through it initially is that almost none
of the server and redirect intercept stuff that I am doing is needed. As
I suspected, the semi-standard `oauth` package does all of that. 

What it *doesn't* do is manage all the different application configs in
your home directory in a manageable and safe way, nor does it provide
any kind of command line utility to help with shell script integration.
That's what I can focus on (and get done with this stuff a lot faster
from now on).

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 3:28:06PM

I feel kinda dumb for not noticing it earlier, but using the convenience
function `http.ListenAndServe()` *obviously* uses a single local server
for everything rather than one open to use with concurrent com channels,
duh. So I need to back and rip out the com system within my little
convenience `oauth` package if I'm going to use the simplified form.
Truth be told, I'm used to more complicated setups where there is more
than one possible server with its own goroutine/thread. I really don't
need the com channel now that I have put a `RWMutex` around the
`AppData` structs that are shared by every server instance that fires
off. It just means that I'll have to enforce some other type of
separation between the mock login server and the application client
server, even though they will be one and the same for testing.

Need to think about this one for a while because I can think of a
useful use case where a command line app or daemon would want to
maintain tokens for several Oauth2 APIs concurrently, for example, in
any sort of service bridge situation. I think the solution is to wrap
the entire app as a session with it's own unique HTTP server(s) for
redirection handling and mocking the service login authorization flow
There can be several apps on a single account with a given service. 

That just seems more *right* than throwing everything into the package
name space and limiting use of the package to non-concurrent parts of
any application. Doing so would make it impossible to refresh multiple
service application tokens at the same time during the same execution,
and since writing a daemon is a likely use of this package that kind of
thing will be common.

In other words, gotta back away a bit now and diagram some stuff to
manage the flow (as well as document it for others).

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 9:11:55AM

Okay, I have to rant about it. <https://developer.restream.io>, a site
entirely dedicated to documentation and communication *requires*
JavaScript to be enabled. I fucking *hate* that! The other day on stream
I was entertaining the possibility of working for them. No more. They
fucking SUCK if they don't understand how completely fucking brain dead
they are to put their *FUCKING DOCUMENTATION* behind a JavaScript wall,
just so *fucking* stupid.

There. I feel better.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 7:29:47AM

Turns out to disable screen locking on PopOS!/Debian all I needed was to
install `dconf-editor` and then find the settings under
`org/gnome/desktop`. Working from home having to type that password in
all the time is rather annoying. 

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 5:48:36AM

Another thing I need is a way to mark locations such that they can be
exported to a YouTube video description so that I can automatically mark
locations in the YouTube video. I definitely need a way, post
processing, to update the YouTube title and description so that I can
just run a command and not have to even log into the thing.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 5:38:16AM

I'm questioning the value of doing anything with the Restream chat
messages other than displaying them on the screen for me to respond to
and know about. In other words, I don't really need a chat bridge
between all my services that I'm streaming to if I am displaying them
all on the screen. Plus the lag between them all would make for a very
weird live stream. No, instead the best (and simplest) thing to do is
just to display everything that is coming in and respond to it as I see
it.

After all, the problem is that *I* can't see the stuff coming in from
others, not that they cannot see what I'm doing because even if I
respond in chat I'm typing it on the screen for them all to see. If they
want the most direct live exchange with me that needs to come through
the IRC in Twitch.

That keeps the ugly bot chat out of the feeds entirely even though that
means there isn't a searchable chat for people to go back and reference.
I will have that, but others won't. I suppose I can create a searchable
web site with all the chat logs at some point.

##  Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 4:42:15AM

This is not going to make any sense, but when I voice stream it keeps me
up. For some reason speaking messes with my sleep schedule more than
anything else. In fact, now that I think about it, when I do a lot of
voice stuff I end up more randomly exhausted during the week than when I
don't. Just typing doesn't do that. If I just code with music I get
naturally tired. So weird.

I think what I'm saying is that I basically have two live streaming
modes:

* Code and music
* Code and voice

Here's another random observation: when I voice it annoys me to have
music on. It's like I'm talking over the music and it stresses me out,
sort of like being in a loud pub or coffee shop with a friend.

I find I get a lot more done also when I don't voice and I definitely
get side-tracked far less. Going down a rabbit hole in voice is *really*
hard to recover from, more emotional for some reason, more likely to end
in a rant that requires a full break to reset.

In fact, I'm so much more productive when I don't voice that I'm
inclined to do it far less, or at least when I do use voice I might as
well fully engage and go with video as well even if I'm recording a
podcast.

Occasionally, chat will be harder than talking through a problem, in
which case I'm just going to turn off the music (and external monitor
speakers so there isn't any feedback) and talk through the issue and
then switch back to music mode.

There's actually two more modes:

* Commentator
* Musician

Commentator mode is when I'm talking over something that has sound to make
commentary on it, usually a YouTube video of some kind. For this I have
to wear headphones and pipe the sound and mic into the same mix to I can
monitor the levels in real time. For this kind of thing you really do
need a sound board that allows for this.

Musician mode is also something that requires headphones to get the mix
right, especially when sing karaoke or something, and, of course, if a
guitar is involved.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 9:48:59PM

Need to take some time and really read through all the [Oauth2 Golang
library](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Oauth2 Golang library). I
still need need a little tool to keep cache tokens and such for command
line apps that use Oauth2, but the bigger stuff should probably use one
of those libraries.

I definitely need to play around with
`redirect_uri=urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob` which indicates to any Oauth2
server that the response is local and the data is okay to be presented
to the query string in the response allowing it to be pulled out (cut
and paste) into the terminal prompting for it. 

However, I want to do more than that, I want to pass that data directly
to a temporary HTTP server that then passes it within the same runtime
to the client side within the command line app effectively taking care
of the cut and paste step doing it internally.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 4:55:03PM

Finally figured out what was wrong with `gruvbox` for Vim. It has the
background set to `#262626` instead of `#282828`, which I actually like
better so I set my terminal background to the same instead of changing
the `gruvbox` plugin. I don't know why there is such a difference
between them when they come from the same project repo, but oh well.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 3:27:10PM

Just discovered that YouTube does an awesome job of creating subtitles
provided the audio is really clear and good. Yet another reason I should
pay attention to how I pronounce things and such. It also means that I
don't need to favor IRC chat over audio. And --- once again --- it
proves overwhelmingly that the Restream approach provides the best
overall value for the most people. Add closed captioning to the list of
things that you get for free with YouTube live streaming that you don't
with Twitch. (YouTube, remember, also offers free transcoding that
requires you to be partner to get on Twitch reliably.) Twitch, however,
has a much better chat interface with its support for IRC. 

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 3:50:05AM

Wouldn't you know it. After clicking on the Restream bot I never checked
the terminal IRC I have been using and sure enough there it was. Vierra
from the live stream community reminded me. It's ugly as sin but it
works. I'm still going to complete the `oauth` module (and the
`restream` app) just 'cuz. If nothing more I need to slug through the
angst of Oauth2 fully in order to grok it fully.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 3:07:22AM

Okay so my goal for the next few hours is to get the `RequestToken()`
function finished and working along with a `mock` handler for testing
locally instead of needing an actual Oauth provider.

Here's some good Oauth2 resources found during this session:

* <https://256stuff.com/gray/docs/oauth2.0/>

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 2:25:31AM

Just one more entry about this schedule stuff.

I fucking love working in the wee hours of the morning when everyone
else is asleep. I get so much done! I get a little giddy sometimes, so
weird, I know. 

Here's a revised schedule based on my current sleep patterns that I'm
going to attempt to maintain for a few months to see how things go. I
think the secret is not to push the physical workouts more than 90
minutes so that I don't need all that extra time repairing my body, just
enough to maintain endocrine balances and stuff. Then I just need to
watch what I eat to keep any extra weight off, which I have to do anyway
so as to not knock myself out in a carb coma.

Hour|Activity
-|-
11am| Up / *Eat (light)* / Family / Reading / Bathroom
12  | Outside / Run / Walk / Yoga
1   | *Eat* / Shower
2   | Live Coding / Project
3   | Live Coding / Project
4   | Private Mentoring / *Snack*
5   | Private Mentoring
6   | Private Mentoring / *Eat*
7   | Private Mentoring
8   | Private Mentoring
9   | *Eat* / Walk Dog / Family / Relax
10  | Sleep
11  | Sleep
12  | Sleep
1   | Sleep
2   | Up / Coffee / *Snack* / Live Coding / Project
3   | Live Coding / Project
4   | Live Coding / Project / *Eat*
5   | Live Coding / Project
6   | Relax
7   | Sleep
8   | Sleep
9   | Sleep
10  | Sleep

I've read that REM happens after 90 minutes of sleep so I believe that
having two longer sleep cycles per day is better than a bunch of 20
minute naps and the science backs that up. Since REM is the *only* time
that your body regenerates --- including your cognitive abilities --- it
is crucial to not skimp on that. I know when I'm doing it well because
when I wake up I'm filled with active thoughts and ideas about what I
was working on and don't feel groggy at all.

I think the best benefit of this schedule is the *incredible* amount of
productivity I find during the early morning time. There is something
magical about having chillhop music on while the rest of the world is
slumbering. It is so relaxing, and God knows I need relaxation to keep
alive today.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 1:42:36AM

Watching the NASA Live from Space Twitch feed has really lit a fire
under my ass. Live streaming has completely changed the world. It is
truly 2020. I can do *even* more to more human along in a good
direction.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 1:18:59AM

*Senior Software Engineer (Full Stack Developer)*, that's my new title.
I'll be *Project Lead* and *Architect* as well. Imma give those titles to
myself now that I'm going to build out three full SaaS projects over the
next year:

* `skilstak.io` - personal skills management app
* `skilz.dev` - portal of vetted learning resources
* `mim.directory` - decentralized knowledge network

I'll be offering others titles as well as I offer core responsibilities
to as many as who want them from my private mentored community first,
then my live stream community. 

The goal is to have all of these major projects completed and ready to
potentially fund by Jan 1 2022, if not earlier. Mim will be ongoing
throughout the entire year, while the two SaaS apps will be one after
the other. We might finish before that, but not going to push it. I want
this stuff to be done right.

##  Tuesday, November 17, 2020, 1:04:44AM

It's gonna be a bitch to kick my new sleep pattern. Perhaps starting to
run/walk will help later. Currently, I have a thing where my body is
used to 4 hour sleep sessions twice a day. For example, I went to bed at
9:30pm or so and just got up as if it were the morning with my brain
firing on all cylinders and ready to code. I'm not really sure I *want*
to break it however. I get some serious shit done these days in the wee
hours of the morning because there is literally nothing to distract me,
that I don't put in front of myself.

Another thing I've picked up on is that if I listen to music while I
code and don't use voice I can hold my concentration even I live stream.
At least this way people can hang out and watch. When I want to engage
with them, of course, I can be more focused and even on camera
eventually. But I really don't need to be *on* the stream because as
much as I want to help people I know I can help them best by just coding
really great stuff and *fucking finishing it.*

I've been thinking of the side-gigs I've written about in the past and
had a real change of heart about a lot of it:

* Writing any kind of book is useless until I finish Mim, the
  Decentralized Knowledge Network.

* Udemy courses, while nice as a hobby, are secondary to creating tons of
  great software and having people watch as I do that instead.

* Basics are covered *enough* by other resources and the truly best
  resources are the specs and manuals, such as the Bash `man` page.

* People who need to be spoon fed material don't interest me. You either
  are an autodidact (or are working to become one) or your not. I'm not
  going to waste my time trying to convince you.

* Live streaming everything I do has be best possible hope of motivating
  others to learn the skills that I use rather than talking about them.
  When someone sees me using these skills, there just is not argument.

* Working for the *right* company provides consistent insurance and a
  steady supplemental income, plus it exposes me to opportunities to do
  things that scale that I simply do not get on my own.

* Working for the *right* company allows me to help others to acclimate
  to a good enterprise environment and keeps me connected.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 6:11:01PM

Feeling a real need to rebalance my time and get on some sort of
schedule again. The election and move really blew everything away.
Here's my daily time budget Imma gonna try:

Hours|Activity
-|-
8|Sleep
5|Mentor (Work)
6|Code (Work)
1|Eat
1|Yoga
1|Walk/Run
2|Relaxing
24|TOTAL

I'll do really long walks/runs on Saturday and Sunday until I'm back
down to Patagonia size. I'll keep up my guitar and singing skills on
those days as well. Sundays I'll do all my household cleaning and
chores. (Sabbath? What's a Sabbath? 😈 )

But here's the hard part. Where to plan all of this during the day:

Hour|Activity
-|-
6:30a|Up / Coffee / Live Coding / Project
7|*Eat (light)* / Live Coding / Project
8|Live Coding / Project
9|Live Coding / Project
10| *Eat* / Live Coding / Project
11| Outside / Run / Walk
12p|Yoga
1|*Eat* / Relax / Coffee|
2|Live Coding / Project
3|Live Coding / Project
4|*Snack* / Private Mentoring|
5|Private Mentoring
6|*Eat (heavy)* / Private Mentoring
7|Private Mentoring
8|Private Mentoring
9|Walk Dog|
10|*Eat (light)* / Relax|
11|Sleep|

While I am mentoring often I'll have down time while monitoring the
coding that they are doing. That's good time to tidy up, check in with
social media, and keep the administrative part of mentoring working.

The struggle I have is that when I get coding on a project (or frankly
into anything) I have a hard time focusing on anything else. I'm very
obsessive about stuff.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 4:47:37PM

I'm struggling with balancing the work on PEGN and the other stuff to
push along my mastery of the core backend tech I mentioned in the
previous post. 

PEGN is something I've always dreamed of, but is only
secondarily relevant to the employable skills of a *Senior Backend
Software Engineer* which is why you don't run into a lot of people
online who are doing it. No one gets *paid* to work on something like
PEGN unless they are in academia or have already established a language
and gained their financial independence doing it (like Guido). 

While I *am* financially independent, the need to get health insurance
for me and my family, while living through the biggest and deadliest
pandemic of my lifetime, seems like a priority, to say the least. Hence
my immediate focus on stuff people will be most likely to pay me for,
and the reduction in screwing around shit I've been known to do on
stream. I've recovered from my Twitter obsession through the election
and no longer have time to follow it as closely as before. Also I need
to start run/shuffling again to reduce my stress.

I know everything will work out in the end. Somehow I just know that.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 4:14:38PM

The more I've been futzing around with Oauth2, HTTP, and such I'm
reminded how substantial the field of knowledge has become in *just* the
backend API and Authentication space. Even though everyone throws around
the *Full Stack Engineer* title a lot no one ever *really* retains a
readied mastery of *all* the skills required for that. No, the reality
is that rational hiring managers and project leaders understand that ---
while a good technologist can reskill quickly as needed to fill in gaps
that happen on the team --- *most* teams will be composed of specialists
who *also* have broad general ability. In other words, it's still a good
idea to find some skill and tech for which you will be the obvious pick
for SME even within a team of "Full Stack" engineers.

"Oh he's our Oauth guru."

"She's definitely the GraphQL pro here."

"They've really shown their the master of SSL and TLS."

You get the point.

Why does this matter? Because as soon as possible you (and I) need to
identify *very specifically* what tech and skill we will master beyond
any other such that people talk about you (me) that way when working on
a team.

Any one of these components of any large-scale web service requires so
much depth that working *just* in that technology all day every day
would be required to keep up with most of it in a way that provides real
context and insight that only comes from repeated exposure.

What is *my* pick?

That's a tough thing to answer for someone with more than 25 years of
broad-ranging and highly specialized career experience. At any number
of points over the years I was *the* specialist for a given thing from
creating data stores with terabytes of data, to writing my own network
protocols, to doing low-level core dump analysis. Arg. This is something
hard to decide.

I'm most drawn to GraphQL, REST API development combined with gRPC. I
want to be the how-stuff-communicates guru of any team I join. I've
always been obsessed with what I call "clean seams" so that everything
can work seamlessly together.

I hate Oauth2, but there is no escaping it. Implementing clean services
that use Oauth2 is an absolute priority for anyone calling themselves a
*Senior Backend Software Engineer*.

So here are the technologies that, let's say, I would have to know
*better* than anyone else on my team to be viewed as the team Backend
and services integration SME:

* HTTP
* SSL/TLS
* GraphQL
* REST
* gRPC
* Oauth2
* JSON Web Tokens
* `net/http`
* `html/template`
* `text/template`
* `curl`
* `netcat`

I need to have every line of every specification or information about
these technologies and tools committed to memory so well my fingers
just know what to do.

The good news is that I already know all of that stuff enough to get a
pretty good job creating and managing it, but I really need to take it
up a notch and target several projects in those areas to further
demonstrate to myself and others that I'm *the* senior specialist in
those areas, areas that I do not have a high demand to master in my
personal or professional life at the moment because once I get something
working it no longer needs my attention.

Incidently, were I to become a pentester instead --- or even just a guy
collecting bug bounties --- those are the same core skills I would
require.

It's also interesting that there isn't that much educational content on
these areas out there so live streaming this stuff could help a lot of
people. The frontend materials are covered pretty heavily, not so much
with the backend stuff. I also believe that is why getting a job with
exceptional mastery *specifically in those backend areas* will make me
(and anyone else) stand out when going for *most* developer jobs. It's
safe to say that most developer jobs today are in the SaaS space. Hence
their overall popularity and scarcity.

And yes, doing all this stuff in Go as my primary language will put me
even further ahead of all the Ruby and Node people who are now
scrambling to learn what I predicted would take over the server-side in
2014 when I made the switch to Go as my primary language. So glad I did.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 3:39:17PM

This entire paragraph (1.3.1 Authorization Code) from the Oauth RFC is
just not relevant when one has to overcome the fact that an API
provider has decided to *assume* that everything using the API is a web
application:

> Before directing the resource owner back to the client with the
> authorization code, the authorization server authenticates the
> resource owner and obtains authorization.  Because the resource owner
> only authenticates with the authorization server, the resource owner's
> credentials are never shared with the client.

I'm pretty fucking tired of API providers *assuming* that everything is
a fucking web app. There are *lots* of other applications that need this
that aren't. Since I live on the terminal I'm justifiably pissed off. In
order to use *any* of these bullshit APIs I have to create my own
"application" and register it with the service. But worse, I have to
talk every user of any terminal application that I create through the
entire process because the fucking API provided requires it. Arguably,
it isn't that bad, and is getting better now that I'll have a library
for it. But still, not everything is a fucking web app.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 3:34:03PM

All that Python programming has me forgetting that Go does not have the
`foo.Get("key")` method, which is probably a good thing because of how
slow all that unnecessary indirection is. Still, I always forget.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 3:23:38PM

I'm torn between using the simplest HTTP server for the job with just
`http.ListenAndServe()` and creating a `Server` instance. There is no
way to explicitly close the default easy server setup, but there is
nothing wrong with starting up a server for the live of the process
because I can always reuse it by passing in new app contexts. This is
not a full production server after all, it's just a quick-n-dirty local
server to handle local redirects and mocks for testing stuff.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 3:07:04PM

It occurred to me that I might not want to lock down the server to
`http://localhost:8080` --- especially since I might want to use the
`mock` path on interfaces other than the local one. So I'm just going to
allow it to be passed and push off that decision to the caller.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 2:32:20PM

I always forget that to make a channel in Go effective you need to
create it and send it to the function that is going to need it, or do
you. I think it is possible to just return it, but that involves firing
off yet another goroutine within the function to allow the channel to be
returned. Passing in a unbuffered channel and then just blocking on it
with a simple loop makes for easier code to understand even if it puts
the work of creating the channel on the caller and not the function
itself.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 2:20:49PM

Oooo, there's a shiny new Golang [blog post](https://blog.golang.org/)
about gRPC that I *definitely* need to check out. Truth of the matter is
that I really need to get freshened up on all the concurrency and
messaging stuff. I really don't use it all that much in daily life so I
need to create projects that use it. I already have a pretty good handle
on `text/template` and `net/http` but I need to have those mastered the
most of any secondary packages in all of Go. Add
[`google.golang.org/grpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc) to
the list. It has quickly become the standard communication method for
all things cloud-ish including both `k8s` and `k3s`.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 1:22:24PM

Trying something different with the `net/http` package this time. I'm
going to embed the `http.Server` and implement a `Handler` for the
entire thing rather than depending on the built in
`http.DefaultServeMux`. Usually, it's easier to just use the built in,
but this server is pretty straight-forward so having everything together
might be better. In fact, for a bunch of stuff I don't even need to
determine the route at all since what is wanted can be derived from the
incoming data.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 1:06:16PM

Today I need to focus on the main flow for authorization. I have it
completely tested, but need to clean it up and make it reusable. It
consists of firing off a local HTTP server to handle the redirects and
process the data only available from them. Thankfully Go is a breeze to
work with when it comes to concurrency and firing up HTTP servers.

##  Monday, November 16, 2020, 3:32:55AM

I sent this [long
tweet](https://twitter.com/rwxrob/status/1328252857221525508) to Leah
Remini (who ironically has the same first name as my vile ex-wife's "new
name" that she'll go to Mormon hell for revealing). Her Scientology
series has one episode dedicated to Jehovah's Witnesses and I have to
say it got to me. Ellen G. White was a peer of Joseph Smith and you can
see so many similarities between the cults. Thankfully, for Mormons,
they believe in "modern revelation" meaning that they can adapt and
change as time goes on --- and have significantly --- rather than being
permanently bound by some interpretation of a book that means people let
their children die to be with Jehovah rather than live with a blood
transfusion. They made an obvious point I had not thought of. Once you
double-down on shit like that you are *stuck* because you cannot
suddenly say that letting children die was wrong that whole time. Many
similar things exist in the Mormon church, but to a lesser degree.
Polygamy is *still* the law of Mormons. They just don't "practice" it
while on Earth. And don't forget the [Mountain Meadows Massacre](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Mountain Meadows Massacre) when
good Mormon men were commanded by their "Elders" to hack men, women, and
children to death with machetes.

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 7:54:50PM

God I hate when even an IETF RFC can't be in sync with what everyone
uses out there. Something as simple as `expires` with the UNIX epoch
time stamp is *not* part of the standard. Instead you get the completely
brain-dead `expires_in` but from what time? Thankfully at least
Restream's API gives an `expires` with the exact second, but otherwise
it has to be guesstimated, which is why I'm renewing if within 10
minutes just to be safe. I'll use the `expires` field if there is one,
otherwise I'll calculate it before caching and keep that 10 minute
buffer for renews to play it safe.

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 5:36:06PM

I swear, object-oriented programming has ruined me. I *still* think of
everything as a object with methods from the very beginning when just
data and functions will be better most of the time. Caught myself this
time and really simplified the `oauth` domain model, but I really have
to keep on it.

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 2:32:40PM

Noticing that <https://developers.restream.io> really puts a lot of extra
unnecessary, redundant shit into their token JSON. The
[RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-3.3) thankfully calls
out what *must* be included. All this is going into
<https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/oauth> so I don't have to remember it all the
time.

Here's all that is specified:

```json
{
  "access_token": "7e61c8a5e2f99404730c511de6580412e618da35",
  "expires": 1520280099,
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "0e633c3343a2df84b1526f4c2e6993ff17e05cab",
  "scope": "profile.default.read channels.default.read chat.default.read stream.default.read",
  "token_type": "Bearer"
}
```

I also noticed that only `refresh_token` is specified. There is nothing
about communicating how long the `refresh_token` is valid before it
expires. It appears the protocol specification says *nothing* about
that. So you end up with a bunch of extra stuff for it that is someone's
idea of what it should look like instead of anything reliable. 

I'm going to take the approach that one can simply assume the refresh
token is for an extended period of time and when attempting a refresh
with it if there is a failure than simply grab an entirely new token
using the full Oauth2 user authentication cycle.

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 2:19:36PM

One of the ways that Oauth2 is so broken is the assumptions surrounding
the `redirect_uri`. While there is a caution and explanation as to why
the TLS protocol (tunnel encryption) is not required, most applications
I have used so far use query strings that contain the token rather than
attempting to post to the URL instead, which is a really good thing
because without that little over site using Oauth2 for *anything* from
the command line would be impossible. As it stands, we can always set
the `redirect_uri` to `http://localhost:8080` and bring up a temporary
server to receive the data as if it had been included in the response
itself. 

I cannot figure out if sending the `code` as a query string was by
design or just a happy fluke. Actually, it makes more sense when you
consider that we do not get a direct response from the user
authentication step, which requires the use of the web hook, which, if
it had been POST, would *never* have worked on local `redirect_uri`
locations.

Lucky for me there is no way they can ever change that without releasing
a *very* breaking change to the entire framework.

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 12:50:23PM

I *really* need to remember the following for `tmux`:

* `!` - `break-pane` default key (instead of `z`)
* `list-keys` - lists all the bindings

##  Sunday, November 15, 2020, 12:09:31PM

So turns out Oauth2 is quite a
[mess](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth#Controversy) but it is
clearly the standard and so need to create it. Creating a module for use
with the terminal command line to get over as much of the web dependency
as needed. Got is working, but now need to create a struct to match the
RFC for what a *token* is.

##  Saturday, November 14, 2020, 9:32:25PM

Watching the series about [Scientology on Netflix](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Scientology on Netflix) serves as a
horrifying reminder just how bad I *could* have had it had I been raised
as a Scientologist and not a Mormon. Mormon abuses were very real, but
*mostly* psychological. My wife equally made it out of Catholicism with
far fewer scars than the many young boys who have been abused. The
difference between Scientology and Mormonism or Catholicism is that ---
while there is a culture of looking the other way when bad shit happens --- 
there are dozens of very detailed, very specific eye-witness reports
that the cult leader is himself violently abusing members.

I find the whole cult-think mentality a source of infinite curiosity
because I fucking lived through it, barely. I can never seem to
understand how we humans fall for it, but we do over and over. In fact,
Trumpism is a form of it.

##  Saturday, November 14, 2020, 3:45:01PM

\$100,000 starting salary as a "Junior" developer, that's what one of my
former members just shared that they are making after I checked in on
them to see how they are doing in their life after [SkilStak]{.spy}. I
have to say that *really* impressed me. We are talking about a person
who had never heard the words *Linux* or *Go* or *Bash* of *Vue* before
meeting them and only dabbled in a little HTML.

This means a lot to me --- to say the least. It not only confirms what I
have been helping them learn has *immense* value in the industry ---
that I'm *not* behind but, in fact, ahead of the curve --- but also that
*reducing* the number of people in my community has been one of the best
things I've ever done. It allowed a more intimate level of focus and
attention on the challenges of the individual. They could not have
obtained that level of expertise had they been a member of a group of
even two learning at the same time. One-on-one mentoring is the *only*
true form of "teaching" that *really* works.

##  Saturday, November 14, 2020, 2:19:51PM

It really breaks my heart to realize that --- as much as I love C and
embedded computing --- I'm just not going to be able to turn that into
the best possible career I could have at this point in my life. My
entire life has been dedicated to stuff on the back end, but not the
*deep* end. While I did write C code professionally for IBM and analyzed
stack traces and core dumps I just don't know if my interest in that
stuff is substantial enough to take me off my obsession for writing
backend and system software. Plus all the backend engineering I have and
will be doing will also directly apply to creating *Mim, a Worldwide
Knowledge Network*. I have to stay laser focused on that.

However, this moment of reflection has also convinced me *again* of the
absolute critical nature of learning JavaScript well for anyone coming
into any of these tech careers. I had toyed with having people learn Go
as a first language, but no, just no. JavaScript is in *everything* even
if learning it means later you need to get a better understanding of
strict typing with Go.

In fact, it is more important to learn Python and Ruby than C for the
targeted backend engineering positions, even Erlang and Rust before C.

##  Saturday, November 14, 2020, 1:02:19PM

As I prepare to work for someone else (not myself) I have had to isolate
the best possible contribution I can make to any organization as well as
the type of organization. It's a tough process for anyone, even someone
who helps others do it for themselves all the time.

The title I want to focus on --- after a *lot* of deliberation with
myself --- is *Senior Backend Software Engineer*, which is pretty much
what I was doing as *CGI Guy* and most of the work I did as Nike's
Intranet web master creating new applications for them to do cool
things. When I was at IBM on the Tivoli team I was constantly automating
things by creating backend services and utilities. In fact, I've been
more of a programmer than *System Administrator* the whole time. That's why
they pulled me into the Global Services Virtual Administrator project, I
was only one of three people (out of 15) who had *any* programming
skill.

In other words, I've always been attracted to the systems side of
things, the "back" end. But I've always been primarily drawn to making
things connect and communicate. That's where my love of grammars comes
as well.

So here's what I need to fully and completely master in a way that is
provable to anyone who might consider hiring me. A lot of these I
already know completely, and some still need to improve. (Looks like I
need my SkilStak app again.)

😎 Primary Skills:

* Linux
  * Bash Command Line
  * Ubuntu
  * RedHat
* Web Foundations
  * HTML
  * CSS
  * JavaScript DOM
* Go Programming
  * `net/http`
  * Concurrency
  * Messaging
  * Encryption
  * Performance
* Testing
  * `curl`
  * `netcat`
* Structure Data Formats
  * YAML
  * JSON
  * XML
* Database Engines
  * PostgreSQL
  * Redis
* Protocols and APIs
  * TCP/IP
  * UDP
  * HTTP
  * GraphQL
  * REST
  * Oauth2
  * gRPC
  * Websockets
  * OpenPGP
  * OpenSSL/TLS
* Containers
  * Docker
  * Containerd

🙂 Secondary Skills:

* NodeJS / Deno
* TypeScript
* Ruby
* Python
* MongoDB

🤔 Tertiary Skills:

* Rust
* Erlang
* Kubernetes
* Cloud Services
  * Amazon Web Services (AWS)
    * EC2
    * S3
    * RDS
  * Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
* CI/CD Tools
  * Jenkins
  * Ansible
  * Terraform
  * Packer

🤬 Stuff I *Cannot* Stomach No Matter What:

* MS SQL
* C#/.NET
* PowerShell
* PHP
* Java

:::co-rant
In fact, I dislike that stuff so much I would go out of my way to avoid
working for any company that fundamentally relied on any of that in its
tech stack that it has not labelled "legacy" and was trying to move off
of. I'm just owning it. Life is too short to fuck around with seriously
bad tech (unless it is to get off of it).
:::

It's been tough coming to this realization. I spent close to a month
messing around with cybersecurity only to realize that the only *real*
thing I want to do there is automate the hacks. All the other "testing"
is just a matter of knowing what scripts and software to run that
*someone else* programmed. I was plagued with annoyance at how shitty
most of it is and was unable to be fast --- the primary requirement for
a *Pentester* --- because I was so distracted by how much better the
tool could be. No, that job is *not* for me. If anything I think I would
have liked engineering the software, finding zero days, and doing
forensics. That is all stuff I may well do still one day. But it
requires additional skills to those I already have. That's fine, but one
thing at a time.

##  Friday, November 13, 2020, 11:36:43PM

A few conclusions about integrating <https://developers.restream.io>
with my terminal-based live streams:

* Websockets API is read only for chat but do-able
* No part of the API support posting chat message to everyone
* Using "Bot" will sync any messages from service to all services
* Bot syncing does include emojis (but not Twitch icons)
* Still okay with terminal only (emojis) because reasons
* Twitch IRC is likely the best for posting messages
* *Eventually* should encrypt the client secret

Wondering if the *primary* chat entry tool should just be Discord since
it has the best support for Markdown including code formatting. Then
when I need to send something quickly could just use something to paste
into Discord or could have a Discord bot that does the post for me. But
it's really not that hard to post to Discord.

##  Friday, November 13, 2020, 6:21:18PM

Been helping a really talented artist get back into web game development
with Phaser3 and I have to say they have really improved the
[documentation of the API](https://photonstorm.github.io/phaser3-docs).
Looks like they also discovered JAMStack web publishing (finally). But
my biggest impression is just how amazing TypeScript makes projects of
this size.

TypeScript makes a lot of sense for a specific type of project, one that
is rather large and requires a *lot* of code but that *must* be written
in JavaScript, such as pretty much ever modern web-based game.
TypeScript has replaced Flash as the go-to language for such things.

Looking at the Phaser3 codebase I'm reminded that there *is* a specific
requirement set that lends itself well to the object-oriented paradigm.
Anything involving games fits very well into that space. Hence C++, C#,
and even Rust popularity with game development. Another (lesser) case is
stuff that involves graphics programming of any kind given that the GUI
is abstracted into widgets. This is the very reason SmallTalk was
created in the first place inspired by other similar systems from the
[Elgelbart's Mother of all Demos](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Elgelbart's Mother of all Demos).

##  Friday, November 13, 2020, 6:16:25AM

TIL that `strconv.ParseInt("0x1A",0,32)` is a thing. The `0` says to
infer the base from the prefix of the string. Not intuitive, but staring
me right in the face in the second paragraph of the `strconv`
documentation.

##  Thursday, November 12, 2020, 5:12:53AM

Finished watching *One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest* and realizing I have
probably have more trauma from having been Mormon for 40 years than I
think I full realize sometimes. I have also been watching the series
exposing what has been happening in Scientology. It is downright
sadistic. 

I would never know what PTSD is but I imagine what I have is
similar. The levels of pain, oppression, and psychological trauma well
up in ways that I cannot always predict, usually random sobbing. 

All the beatings -- psychological and real -- I bore as a kid in
middle-school certainly play a part, not from Mormonism, but from the
unchecked oppression of a social class structure of a bunch of young
people trained well by a system that rewards aggressive bullies and
ridicules intelligence and empathy.

"I don't do empathy" are the exact words my FUCKING land-lord said to my
wife as he kicked us out for know good reason knowing full well it would
cause me to close my main school and having just promised us verbally a
five-year lease. That is not an exaggeration. He was *exactly* the type
of kid who had been trained to become a shit-head, like his father. But
he had also been taught to take, to win, that cheating is relative, that
strength is all that matters. Eric, you prick, I hope you fucking rot in
hell along with the rest of your ilk (look it up you fucking moron, as
if he would ever read those words). 

And to all the Mormons who lied to me and taught me *the bullshit* that
nearly destroyed my life and that of my gay son, FUCK OFF! You are the
ones voting for this Trump asshole, an anti-Christ if one ever existed.
This is on you, and God will punish *you* for the atrocities you have
enabled.

No. I'm not crazy. I'm just pissed as hell. ***We*** won't take this
shit anymore. We've had enough.

##  Sunday, November 8, 2020, 2:57:06PM

Another day of the new normal. People are being directly attacked for
suggesting that we should keep cool but firm with Trump and the
Republicans who refuse to accept defeat. We need to prosecute and
rhetorically attack this bullshit with evidence, passion, and as much
vigor as we can muster, but there is a line, and people are
*overwhelmingly* proving they are willing to cross it. Certainly, I've
been no better. The moment catches you. It causes thousands to throw
their careful attention to not spreading Covid OUT THE FUCKING WINDOW
and do whatever the fuck they want, so long as they wear a mask. You
cannot say, "but they are wearing masks" because some aren't and some
Trump supporters also did. I understand *why* they are doing it. But the
hypocrisy is fucking overwhelming. Worst of all it plays into the
rhetoric from Trump's people that we are all talk and do whatever we
want when we start winning.

I can't even mention these thoughts publicly right now. I have been
effectively and completely silenced. The new mob majority has decided
that I no longer have a right to say, "Hey guys, I agree but ..." They
are steam-rolling everyone just like the Right has predicted. Even
mentioning it and I get shouted down for being a white man. I'm not
suggesting I sympathize with *any* white nationalism. And I hear the
voice in my head that I imagine they are saying, "Shut the fuck up, now
is not your time. I'm speaking." And even writing this means that
someone out there is going to say, "Oh boo hoo for the privileged white
tech bro. How does it fucking feel? Huhn?" even though anyone who
*actually* knows me could vouch for who I *really* am. "You've grown up
as a white man. You have *no fucking idea* what it is like to be a
*<insert oppressed class here>*!" I *KNOW* I don't! I get that "maturity
requires knowing when to speak" as one person said. I get it. But that
is just another way of saying, "Shut the fuck up right now, we are
speaking." 

Creating a dialog based based on "trust and love" (Friere) through all
of this is literally impossible because apparently there is a free-pass
to anyone who needs to vent right now, to say just about anything. Even
George Takai is sympathizing with people who call for forgiveness on
Twitter because of their premeditated plan to spew personal attacks and
insults on every member of Trump's "team" that is leaving. It really
feels a bit like (hopefully only a rhetorical) a moment of "Let's spit
on their head as it rolls into the basket." Honestly, I can't
understand all my emotions right now, but I find myself even more
disgusted with humanity, and not full of hope as I once was after Trump
lost.

I have felt that way myself. I've acted on that. I've written horrible
things about people I felt deserved it. I suck. I'm just saying that I
suppose I've looked around at what *I* was doing, and then what others
were doing and asking myself, "Damn, do I sound like that?" And now all
I can do is live in fear for even attempting any dialog with anyone. No
one is immune and it isn't my place to tell anyone anything. "Damn right
it isn't" the response from the impassioned crowd seems to be.

As funny as it is to read politicians say things like when the
Philadelphia Council Member (understandably) says, "You're fired, you
sick motherfucker" to Stephen Miller, a human who makes me shake with
rage for being one of the most evil and disgusting human beings to ever
be appointed to any political cabinet, a person calling for the brutal
and intention separation of mothers from their children at the border to
"teach them a lesson" whom I think should be locked up for the rest of
his life and admittedly would not cry a tear if he somehow came to harm,
I still feel like I can do better. I *know* I can do better. We *have*
to do better. That hate cannot be allowed to fester, even if it is
completely and totally justified. Strength is different than hate.
Neville Longbottom talking to Voldemort comes to mind. He spoke without
fear, very directly and with "just ire" but he did *not* cross the line.
Neville is the true hero of the Harry Potter series. His parents weren't
just killed, they were murderously tortured, yet look at his actions.
Neville fucking rocks.

I would *never* dream of telling everyone how to feel right now. But I
am sick and tired of everyone telling everyone else what *they* should
be doing, what they can and can't say, and what *they* should be
thinking. Yes we need to stand up to tyranny, but the energy from
standing up is consuming itself and morphing into a massive level of
entitlement to say whatever the fuck you want about others, even over
less inflammatory issues. It scares the hell out of me, not because my
beliefs are any different from others, but because the level of anger
and retaliation is completely and totally unchecked and "now is not the
right time." When is the right time? Who gets to decide? I am back to
yelling at the sky about my frustrations because only a tiny minority of
people would even let me express these feelings right now.

##  Sunday, November 8, 2020, 6:11:22AM

Aw yes, and so it begins. I've been banned by Twitter for a perfectly
reasonable dissenting opinion just as I was hoping Twitter had changed
their ways. Here's the thing. I *agree* with the conservative right that
big tech has *way* more power over our democracy than it should ever
have. I *agree* that our privacy and ability to communicate in a free
and open society is being curtailed. 

I agree with those on the left *and* right that Trump fascism is the
greatest domestic political evil our country has ever faced. In fact,
Trump has damaged us in ways that a lot of people don't seem to even
see, yet.

Not even a day has passed since the announcement and already people are
sharpening the guillotine. They don't care whose head they chop.
They are using Trumpist right-wing rhetoric like "fuck their feelings"
and "no apologies" and "never forget" just like we have seen in history
over and over and over again. 

My wife says I'm just seeing only one side of it, that really it's
only a small percentage, and you know what? She is *exactly* repeating
the same condescending, reductive shit that right-wing people used to
say about their own militias. "No, the left has *never* been as bad as
the Right."

Even if that is true, and I dearly want to believe it is, it
doesn't make me feel any better. I'm afraid the truth will now be known.
100s of heads are figuratively ready to roll just like France in 1789.
Some deserve it more than others, of course. But when does the
metaphorical killing stop? 

There's a reason I love the Hunger Games more than any other dystopian
examination of revolution. Katnis has to kill the *new* leader --
drunk with power, wanting to make a *new* Hunger Games -- while she
lets the mob rip Snow (deservedly) apart. Why the fuck can't people see
that this is *already* taking shape in America? The extremists, whipped
up by Trump on both sides are *exactly* what Trump wants and we don't
even see we are playing into his sadistic, diseased game.

Evidence?

Well one thing I find interesting is how many South Americans have been
chiming in on the whole revolution thing. Many of us are totally shocked
by so many South Americans voted for Trump, and you know what, it wasn't
just because of religion. As one woman wrote, "I have watched leftists
destroy my country in Venezuela, please don't let that happen here."

This is why someone like Paulo Friere is the better authority on these
things. While he is *entirely* for "radical" revolution he has seen so
many of them that he knows you *cannot* free the population by just
swapping out one group of oppressors for another. 

What is Friere's suggested fix? Dialog, real dialog that brings about
"praxis" which cannot happen until their is trust and love, which he
doesn't use in the saccharin way that others do. The oppressed have to
come to see their oppressors (which we just overthrew) as *also* victims
in this. But Americans just aren't able to do that. The oppressed who
say "fuck their feelings" and "no apologies" and "never let them forget"
have whipped decent left-leaning people up into the same frenzy. *Yes*
it is Trump's fault. *Yes* it is disgusting behavior. *Yes* people have
literally died and justice requires a response. But the choice of that
response will decide whether America enters civil war or not. Cycles
like this *do not go away*. The Gaza strip or any of the South American
governments have proven this over and over again.

I am *not* calling for the type of soft-peddling forgiveness that keeps
progressive people *constantly* being put down by the bullies. But I am
saying something Michele Obama always says, "They go low. We go high."
There is *no* need to be "pussies" about *anything*. We can show great
strength *and* enough rational compassion to *allow* them to change and
create a *new* dialog. These people are Americans. Some have *seriously*
broken the law and need to be accountable. Some have just been caught up
in the crazy. I imagine my parents are among them. I suppose it is time
to see if I can actually live up to my own words. Can I forgive my
Trump-supporting parents? Or will I forever block them from my life.

Remember, even Obama and Hillary were *against* gay marriage for most of
their lives. We let them change. I was Mormon for 40 years and committed
adultery, which looking back I deeply regret and don't excuse. I
understand *why* all that happened, why I had to change and people *let*
me change despite the incredible pain I caused. I imagine everyone has
some story in their past of being able to move on because people *let*
them move on. We let Biden move on from being held back for *major*
plagiarism in college? Can't we let others change as well? 

##  Friday, November 6, 2020, 6:24:54PM

So there is someone claiming that MI, WI, NC, GA and PA all have Democrat
governors except so I decided to confirm this:

* MI - hell yes, and she is amazing
* WI - definitely, and Trump has people trying to kill her
* NC - confirmed, since I live here
* GA - republican
* PA - democrat

Turns out it is true, which is amazing even if the person making the
claims was arguing that the they are "stealing" the election.

##  Friday, November 6, 2020, 3:07:00PM

Now is the time people's true nature comes out. Here's one example from
a random good person on Twitter:

> I am in no mood to take the highroad when Republicans have been
> crawling around the muck for five years at least.

And here's my plea to let people change, even those who have made
horrible decisions in the past:

> Yeah, but we really need to. Obama and the Clintons were AGAINST
> things like gay marriage. Not all Republicans are Trump, not by a long
> shot. We have to *let* people change instead of beating them over the
> head with their horrible choices. Please.

God knows I need to follow my own council on this. I have definitely
*not* been this way before. But I see it now more than ever.

##  Thursday, November 5, 2020, 2:06:27AM

I have been completely consumed with the election and what is happening
in social media. I've been pretty damn tame during all of it seeking to
better understand and trying to calm the situation. When there is
someone who is just completely abhorrent I've been emulating the master
of mirroring, Sacha Baron Cohen, who practices a form of trolling for
social good that is absolutely brilliant (even if he takes it to
extremes I would be uncomfortable with). Rather than telling lies and
making up stories about people, or getting people really upset for no
reason (4-chan style trolling), he just gets people to double-down on
what they *actually* believe. He reflects and amplifies what is already
in them for everyone else to see. This trolling is actually a form of
*true* professional clowning he partially learned from the [École
Philippe
Gaulier](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2016/aug/02/philippe-gaulier-clown-school-emma-thompson-sacha-baron-cohen-edinburgh-festival-interview)
that very completely depends on a premise of falsehood to elicit *real*
truth and authenticity in the target.

I make no apologies for coveting this skill. It is the most masterful
way to destroy the influence of another by simply allowing their truth
to be known for all to see. It is the subtle art of drawing out
someone's authentic nature, their *true* self that they wish to hide.
Masters of this art first have to themselves be willing to have their
entire authentic self laid bare to the world so that they can take on
roles to bring authenticity out in others.

Cohen's art is far more than cheap pranks, though admittedly he has gone
for cheap laughs on occasion, but he has also uncovered probable
pedophile rings while pretending to want to buy a yacht, content that
was so "dark" (his word) that he submitted it to the FBI rather than put
it in his movie.

There are a lot of ways I can contribute to the world. Coding new things
for open source, motivating and mentoring hungry autodidacts in the ways
of technology, engaging in respectful social dialog, and --- when
required --- trolling the dregs of society into revealing their true
nature.

I thought about revisiting propaganda battle tactics recently after
discovering one of the most amazingly executed Russian propaganda
campaigns I've ever seen. The Russians are absolute masters. I felt the
call to launch my own as well, but the problem with battling evil with
propaganda is that instead of focusing on drawing out ultra-authenticity
you spend your time lying to get them to change their minds without all
the facts, or with half truths to promote a particular agenda. As the
Mormon leader [Boyd K.
Packer](https://lifeafter.org/truth-some-of-it-is-not-useful-mormon-quotes/)
used to say, "The truth is not always useful" (which apparently Kant
also said). Manipulating *someone else's truth* through deception ---
the essence and goal of propaganda --- is just too fucking
evil and bad for society. It seeks to seed falsehoods and get people to
adopt *your* truths that you decide *for* them. The art of it is in
disguising the idea so masterfully that they have no idea they are being
manipulated, to "build relationships of trust" as the Mormon
missionaries are taught, and then at the proper moment invite them to
act on *their* newly discovered knowledge. None of it works unless you
get the target to *think* they are arriving at their own truth, not
unlike the plot of Inception. But all of that is the worst kind of
lying, the opposite of encouraging critical thinking. Even if you are
successful you have created a "receptacle" (as Friere calls it) for
others to control and manipulate as well. Society gains nothing.

No, I cannot participate in that kind of battle. It is the polar
opposite of employing the "pedagogy of the oppressed" to help them
realize for themselves what is going on around them, to unplug as many
people from the Matrix as possible, to remove the "shackles from their
eyes" so to speak. I'll strive to help others realize facts for
themselves, to test everything, to think critically. When necessary I
will draw out their truth and publishing it in their own words, for good
or ill, *with no creative editing*. That is closer to *true*
investigative journalism, that is what I call *trolling for good* and it
is all I am interested in.

##  Monday, November 2, 2020, 12:21:19PM

Just got a response to a ban request on Twitter in like 10 minutes.
Twitter has *really* taken up the call to do as much as possible to put
a wet-blanket on the fire the Trump terrorists are fanning hoping for an
all out war so they can use their call-of-duty-wannabe guns on "soy
boys on the field". Thankfully the *real* heroes of the American
military actually are true patriots who understand there is no excuse
for violence in the streets and would do everything in their power to
protect America from an all-out civil war. Something as small as a moron
having his Twitter mega-phone taken away for using it to make threats of
physical violence warms this soy-boy's heart. 

Perhaps the biggest thing I am reminded of in all of this is how
completely impotent these morons are and how much *real* power those of
us have who fight back the internal motivation to respond with violence
unless it is necessary. If and when the time comes, yes, I would (and
will) fight such assholes who refuse to listen and dialog (mostly
because words hurt their brains). They are terrorists and must be dealt
with as such. In fact, they are the worst kind of terrorists
because they claim to be "protecting" America. 

No, when and if the time comes I fight for all Americans like any level
20 "soy-boy" wizard, from the back line reigning hell-fire in ways that
these tiny-brained morons can't even comprehend. Do I hope for that
opportunity? Hell no. I don't incite in order to use my skills. But I do
have them when needed, such as the silencing of this tiny pawn just now.
It felt good to defend *our* America, the one that doesn't tolerate
threats of violence.

##  Monday, November 2, 2020, 10:59:37AM

The new [Raspberry Pi 400](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Raspberry
Pi 400) proves once and for all that any educational institution is
better off learning Linux than anything else. Rather than pretending that
everyone needs to learn how to use an iPad touch interface, the Pi 400
takes the *completely* opposite approach. "All you need is a keyboard
and a Pi, and maybe a mouse." 

When I advised at a school that was doing a 1-to-1 deployment, the
number one top problem was broken screens. It was such a problem that
Apple started just giving the school new screens because, I assume, they
wanted to avoid the bad press of Apple Macbook Airs just not being good
enough. I imagine the same was true for iPads. 

Here's the thing. The monitor is immaterial. Monitors are cheap these
days --- especially since most televisions can double as one. A computer
lab need only have monitors so the kids can bring their 400s with them
to school. In fact, *smart* schools could have screens in *every*
classroom enabling every subject to be based on digital materials. They
don't even need Internet access. All they need is one server on the
schools network and all the materials could be hosted there.

And another thing. By not having a monitor the Pi 400 removes all the
*extra* stuff students due with the computer to abuse the privilege of
having one. Students simply cannot use their computer without a monitor,
period. This is much better than the worst privacy invading software ever
known to humans, which Apple did to give ability to any teacher or
administrator to monitor *any* laptop no matter where it was, even at
home.

Sadly school districts in the States are often too flawed with
corruption and incompetence to do something that makes this much sense
to everyone else. Most are in-bed with Apple because of the cronyism,
corruption, and being underfunded. But at least more than a few humans
know that other, better ways do exist. Maybe Covid will put options like
these out there for everyone so people on lower incomes can have a
computer in their home. Even the poorest (at least in America) have a TV
screen somewhere they could plug into.

##  Saturday, October 31, 2020, 3:26:39PM

Now that I've accepted that I am forever committed to Vimisms, whether I
like it or not, I've become okay trying other new things like
[`vim-airline`](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=`vim-airline`) which
gives quite a nice bit of visual input about the file you are working
with, which is particularly good when streaming and when I have several
panes open at the same time so I can quickly identify what file is open
for editing in each. Another good thing is how the `ex` line stays
visible allowing people who are watching to see what my last command was
rather than asking me to redo it for them.

##  Saturday, October 31, 2020, 1:11:11PM

How do we fix this?

That's the question I keep asking myself over and over again
obsessively. Then, I eventually get disillusioned. Here's why:

**People don't know how to act in others' best interests.** We are had
wired to be selfish. Unless they benefit, they don't *really* give a
shit. I want to believe that isn't true for *me*, but so does everyone
else. This relates to the bigger question: Is there any *true* altruism?
People, even those who *appear* completely and totally selfless are
ultimately doing *everything* for themselves.

**People --- Americans in particular --- have been conditioned to think
self-interest is selfish, at least the perception of such.** Acting in
one's own "self interest rightly understood" is how all of existence is
set up to be. A highly religious person wants to get to Heaven. A
scientist accepts the core motivation in all creatures to survive and
flourish. 

> In this respect I think they frequently fail to do themselves justice,
for in the United States as well as elsewhere people are sometimes seen
to give way to those disinterested and spontaneous impulses that are
natural to man; but the Americans seldom admit that they yield to
emotions of this kind; they are more anxious to do honor to their
philosophy than to themselves.
([Toqueville](http://xroads.virginia.edu/~Hyper/DETOC/ch2_08.htm))

Not accepting the truth of our innate self-interest causes social
dichotomy leading to hypocrisy, guilt, cognitive dissonance, denial, and
even violent narcissism when such people suddenly realize that
self-interest is okay and others distort this truth into "rational
selfishness" that says even God wants you to live the "affluent life"
shutting out the homeless during hurricanes from your million dollar
mega-churches.

**Society pushes people away from authenticity.** Lately we are seeing a
dark side of this. America is filled with evil, racist, assholes who
would rather kill people they disagree with --- and feel they are
justified by God --- than turn the other cheek. Such people have been
given permission to let out their authentic selves. At least now we know
those people have existed all along. But what if everyone 
behaved in society according to who they *actually* are. At least then
we wouldn't suddenly have a crisis because we could create dialog
earlier *before* our differences break angrily out onto the streets.
Society does not give people permission to openly express themselves and
frankly it never will. This is why we see so many people hide behind
anonymity rather than have an open, public debate and dialog. They would
rather call me a "sweaty autistic" than actually engage (and in that
case it turned out to be a Rust fan-boy troll, no surprise there).

**A minority of greedy people are even more selfish.** These are the
"unenlightened" who --- rather than realizing what is good for society
*is* good for them --- *only* focus on what is good for themselves *at
the cost* of others welfare. These are the "what can I get away with"
people. Ironically, many of these people claim to be extremely
God-fearing good people who are simply using God to justify their
actions that are otherwise bad for everyone else who isn't in their God
club. These are also the "greed is good" people who distort the truths
of enlightened self-interest into "rational selfishness" (Ayn Rand) to
further destroy the world even if that destruction doesn't come until
they are long and dead. I believe this is the major cause of all our
problems today. Rand's works were all the rage for more than a decade
and have shaped societal values worldwide for the worse. This is how
assholes like my last two land-lords are able to say, "I don't do
empathy" while kicking us out despite our perfect payment record and
verbally committing to helping me grow my school. Such people have no
shits to give about others. "It's just good business."

**People can't change people. People change themselves.** One thing Friere
really brings home is how impossible it is to change someone else. The
best we can hope for is to *effect* change in them, but not change them.
Ironically, I learned all about this while training Mormon missionaries.
We focused on the psychological scientific truth of helping someone
"feel the spirit" for themselves and then "inviting" them to make a
commitment based on their own feelings. We learned all about the
conditions that were needed, the safe atmosphere, and how to promote
their confidence that they could, in fact, feel the Spirit of God
speaking to them personally. Even more ironic is how close
this is to Friere's position. To *help* someone change involves becoming
their peer, being willing to learn something from them, helping them
find the confidence to trust in their mind *and* heart, and then "posing
a problem" to be considered and worked on. I've been saying, "You can't
teach anyone, anything" for years. Turns out its true --- despite how
much educators hate hearing it.

> If the members of a community, as they become more equal, become more
> ignorant and coarse, it is difficult to foresee to what pitch of
> stupid excesses their selfishness may lead them; and no one can
> foretell into what disgrace and wretchedness they would plunge
> themselves lest they should have to sacrifice something of their own
> well-being to the prosperity of their fellow creatures.
>
> I do not think that the system of self-interest as it is professed in
> America is in all its parts self-evident, but it contains a great
> number of truths so evident that men, if they are only educated,
> cannot fail to see them. Educate, then, at any rate, for the age of
> implicit self-sacrifice and instinctive virtues is already flitting
> far away from us, and the time is fast approaching when freedom,
> public peace, and social order itself will not be able to exist
> without education. ([Toqueville](http://xroads.virginia.edu/~Hyper/DETOC/ch2_08.htm))

##  Friday, October 30, 2020, 11:16:48PM

Just found out that using a GitHub raw URL includes a token in the query
string that expires after seven days but makes that resource available
to anyone with the URL --- including those watching my live stream.

##  Friday, October 30, 2020, 2:14:27AM

I finally got around to reinstalling the [Vimium](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Vimium) plugin. I had been
using it for years and for some reason --- probably all my renewed Lynx
usage now that I have searching mapped to `?` and `??` from the command
line --- it is really amazing and allows me to use my computer almost
entirely without a mouse. In fact, so far I have found no reason for my
fingers to ever leave home row. Now that I have my computer hooked up to
a big screen and a long keyboard that makes this old man very happy.
Sometimes it can be the little things like this that make all the
difference.

##  Friday, October 30, 2020, 12:55:32AM

The pain in my hands --- especially my pinky fingers --- from hours on
end of keyboarding is finally happening as I draw closer to my mid 50s
which has brought me to do something I swore I never would. 

```vimscript
" Map <ESC> key to jj
inoremap jj <Esc>
cnoremap jj <Esc>
inoremap kk <Esc>
cnoremap kk <Esc>
inoremap kj <Esc>
cnoremap kj <Esc>
```

Why the enormous betrayal to my former self?

It's complicated but boils down to the following logic based on recent
discoveries:

* I already have vimisms burned into my muscle memory.
* `Escape-[` does not work on international keyboards.
* `Alt-jklh` is just as strenuous as no mapping and vimism.
* Vim + TMUX + Bash *is* an IDE of sorts.
* Emacs still isn't worth using (to me).
* I don't have to use it, but its there when needed.
* I already fidget with `j` and `k`.  

The biggest blow to my pure `vi` ego was realizing by beloved use of of
["magic wands"](https://rwx.gg/vimagic/) (the exclamation point) has
always been a vimism in the way that I have been using it. But so has
`gw`, all the spelling help, macros (which I only allowed myself to use
within the last month and now could never go back to not using them).
There are just too many Vim-only things that I already use. So why not
yet another small thing that gives my pinkies a wonderful rest.

The alternative, which I seriously considered for a full day, was to
throw out all my Vim muscle memory along with Vim itself and use Emacs
for everything significant and `nvi` for configuration edits. This is
what Linus Torvaldz does as well as many other amazing developers and
technologists. This seems to be the preference of the Academic set as
well as the entire BSD community. But, after much consideration, such a
change is just too late for me. Besides, there is a monstrous risk that
doing such a thing would turn out to *still* be not as good as Vim.
Given the mappings I have set in *everything* else to use "Vi mode", and
the simple fact that many of those things can't even be set to Emacs
mappings, even if the Bash command line defaults to it, I simply cannot
justify it even though logically I would want to attempt that for a full
year as an experiment if I were younger.

I can say this. After using the `jj` hack just a day it has made a
*significant* difference. If this continues I simply won't be going back
--- especially since I plan to do a lot more writing and coding over the
next few years of my "retirement".

What about all those whom I mentor? Well they will always be able to
make their own decisions, but I intend to introduce this immediately to
all of them so that they can be saved from having to type `Esc` all the
time. There is no sense for a young person to burn that shit into their
brain. Most of them already live with the arrow keys anyway. One even
uses the mouse. I'm getting soft in my old age.

They say the biggest danger to progress is dogma. So there is no shame
in my saying that the guy I once knew who got angry at the notion of
doing something so radical as this was just stupid, and that guy was me.
Yep, I just called myself stupid, but anyone *else* stupid enough to
call me stupid, or tuck away this small victory and bring it up again,
well, they can just go fuck themselves. The beauty and wonder of getting
old is all the fucks I don't have to give about small, shallow people liking me. 

Give it a try and make your *own* decision.

##  Thursday, October 29, 2020, 7:47:11PM

I really need to make a meme with Dolorous Umbrage handing out AP
Computer Science course text books that contain the stuff
[here](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-a/course)
outlining the course. It is just so fucking horrible. Even the comments
at the bottom and all the registered trademarks on all the methodologies
and bombastic shit scream of irrelevance. They aren't even trying to
create something in the best interests of the students or those for whom
they might eventually work. Friere would just shake his head in sorrow
at the whole lot.

Don't get mad, Rob, get busy. I actually went out to that page to check
and see if anything had changed *in the last eight years*. Well it
hasn't. I can't even create a parallel curriculum because *entire units
are shit*. 

But that is all okay because the very idea of too much reading and
theory is antithetical to *actual* learning. Side by side performance of
practice and working with a common goal is the key. That is why the
world's best book on JavaScript programming currently is the result of a
Kickstarter and lots of collaboration. We need a Go one as well.

##  Thursday, October 29, 2020, 5:03:28PM

Just had a community member mention the [Gemini
Project](https://gemini.circumlunar.space/), a cross between Gopher and
HTTP. At least people are thinking about the alternatives.

##  Thursday, October 29, 2020, 2:24:00AM

I've never been more convinced that paywalls are part of what is killing
our world. People like the former campaign manager for Bernie Sanders
troll someone like Chomsky into interviewing and then posting
essentially "I schooled Chomsky, come see" only to run into some
ridiculously overpriced paywall to then discover she's actually just an
attention whore with nothing substantial to say with opinions that will
actually *put* Trump in office after *miserably* failing as Bernie
Sanders campaign manager.

The bigger issue is all the money behind all the news outlets. It
started with cable and now is just continuing with likes and views and
ads. You see this all the time on Twitch. People behave completely
differently just to get the subs and likes, 'cuz money. If humanity is
to have any hope at all these people need to start making money doing
other substantial things and then sharing their knowledge as a social
good instead of for cash flow on the side. There's no way *anyone* can
arrive at truth if all the science and dialog is funded by this or that
special interest. That goes for me as well. Paywalls exclude some of the
most important people who need to participate in the conversation. The
"oppressed" cannot often participate in the discussions because their
oppressors won't even let them in. In some cases, just as Friere
predicts, the saccharine, empty "paternalism" from neo-liberals is the most
hypocritical and damaging. But, as Friere suggests. The oppressors are
incapable of seeing this themselves. The only solution is for the
oppressed to develop their own courage and voice. Hence, the "pedagogy"
requiring being with and among them to share learning experiences as
they bring their own revolution that includes not seeing the oppressors
as enemies, but equal victims in a broken system.

##  Wednesday, October 28, 2020, 4:38:51PM

As much as I would very much love to work for the *right* company doing
DevOps work, or Go programming, or cybersecurity engineering I really
feel internally motivated and supported by my live stream community to
figure out a solid way to finance the continuation of the very important
projects and works I am currently doing including building needed
applications, writing essentials books, making specific instructional
videos, and live-streaming all of it for others to participate in.

I know there is definitely a way to raise enough money from it all for
my wife and I to live normally with health insurance and a home with a
mortgage --- especially since I'm already able to comfortably live with
just 25 private mentored community members. But I need to take it up a
notch (basically at least `$20k` more per year) to be able to afford
health insurance in America and have even a small amount of savings in
case of emergencies (as we age).

I found this [excellent
breakdown](https://www.thebalancesmb.com/best-crowdfunding-sites-4580494)
of crowdfunding sites. I have a Patreon, but I clearly need to spend
some time with it. All this time managing the "business" of it all gets
really tedious because it takes away from the actual work, but I realize
it is needed.

I think each of the following types of efforts need a different
crowdfunding approach:

* Working on specific open source projects
* Writing specific "books" (with accompanying living knowledge base)
* Creating specific instructional videos on YouTube
* Live streaming whatever I'm doing
* Just being seriously dedicated to social change and living off the
  minimum required to maintain a modest house, insurance, and services
  for my family.

The reality is that I have to complain about all the other dumb shit
that gets funded but --- honestly  --- I haven't even been asking for
funding or preparing a way for the "angels" out there to find me. I can
be gruff, even annoying, and people will still fund many of these
efforts if I just give them the opportunity. If nothing more, Linus
Torvalds has proven that.

##  Wednesday, October 28, 2020, 3:42:27PM

I practically just need to cut and paste this every time some dumb ass
says, "Joe Biden is compromised":

> Flaccid. You have zero evidence for that while a mountain of documented evidence and sworn testimony from some of America's greatest FBI and military veterans and Trump's own turned inner circle have testified that Trump is *overwhelmingly* compromised enough to be impeached. 

##  Wednesday, October 28, 2020, 1:15:58PM

Found this great little daemon written in Go for displaying message
notifications with `tmux display-message` (which I did not know existed
until today). There are *so* many integration possibilities with `tmux`.
Once upon a time I bemoaned this flexibility as being bloat and
unnecessary, but now that I can integrate so easily and fully with
everything else --- making things terminal enabled --- I cannot praise
it enough. Using this I can add notifications when people join the chat
from Restream API, reminders to myself instead of flashing the entire
screen, and so much more.

##  Wednesday, October 28, 2020, 11:25:40AM

Lately I've been participating (poorly) in Twitter dialog, which is
practically an oxymoron. You just cannot dialog over Twitter, yet for
some fucking reason the entire world has decided to use it for some of
the most important intercommunication of our time. The creator of
Twitter (among others) is appearing before the senate to "answer" for
what Twitter has done to our world, but it really isn't Twitter's fault.
Twitter does not decide what information we see. We do. We create our
own echo chambers, unless we don't.

All this has really lit a fire under me to at least attempt to create
another way of communicating that might help us survive disagreement.
The problem is greed and popularity. People are drawn to things that
they don't have to pay for (and therefore come the product, not the
consumer). But they also want to be liked. Some demented form of the
need to be social causes us to want those retweets and likes. So rather
than take the time to become a content creator we tap out 140 characters
as creatively as we can hoping to get the likes. Plus humans are stupid.
Many can't even read, let alone *really* type. Martin Luther (senior)
knew this when he created all those pictures using the printing press
to influence the masses rather than words.

##  Tuesday, October 27, 2020, 1:58:47PM

Peter had another great recommendation for those considering BSD,
[*Absolute FreeBSD - The Complete Guide to
FreeBSD*](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=*Absolute FreeBSD - The
Complete Guide to FreeBSD*). Then there is
[this](https://papers.freebsd.org/2019/fosdem/looney-netflix_and_freebsd/)
from Dennis. Maybe use the
[MicroEmacs](https://github.com/torvalds/uemacs) that Torvalds uses.

##  Monday, October 26, 2020, 8:48:52PM

I couldn't help myself. I ranted about [how bad Cobra
is](/wish/#generator-replacement-to-go-cobra-commander) and opened an
[issue](https://github.com/spf13/cobra/issues/1266) on it. I'm a bad
person, but I promise my heart is in the right place.

##  Monday, October 26, 2020, 6:07:26PM

Few things help me more to manage my random depressed mood swings than
observing someone *really* learning a lot after having learned to give
themselves permission to take charge of their own learning. Their very
demeanor changes from "You want me to do what ... ?" to "Today I thought
I'd focus on ...?" It fills me with absolute joy to hear such simple
words.

This afternoon has been filled with people doing just that, and at ages
that others --- especially those formally trained in education --- would
likely simply not believe unless they observed it themselves. Once a
mind is free from the oppressive ideologies and practices of the
tyrannically enslaving "traditional education" paradigms and pedagogies,
and from the consuming addictions created by games and other
quick-skills-fix drugs they've come to abuse because they have been denied
the more meaningful joy of owning their learning and the natural highs
that result, it seems that the mind bursts with new energy manifesting
in a wide range of ways detectable to any minimally intelligent biped
paying a modicum of *real* attention --- instead of stuffing an
impersonal "assessment" in their face onto which they'll later bleed a
few words of "correction" or "encouragement". Does *anyone* really
believe that has ever worked? Some would say this sort of personal
assessment lacks objectivity. I say bullshit. Those making such claims
are either too lazy to attempt the ultimate method of personal pedagogy
or too greedy to pay the cost in empty fiat required to increase the
number of personal learning mentors to enable these experiences for
everyone. I now know that at least two *incredibly* respected pedagogues
agree. Thank you Sir Ken and Mr. Friere.

Also, I can't help noticing the direct correlation between this way of
learning at Hogwarts when the Room of Requirements manifests itself and
Harry takes on the task of sharing his skills with absolute humility
while keeping it fun. *Dumbledore's Army* is literally a celebration of
the *Pedagogy of the Oppressed*. No wonder I love it so much.

##  Monday, October 26, 2020, 4:39:59PM

Nice to learn that Netlify does all the [cache busting for
you](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2015/09/11/instant-cache-invalidation/).
I'm noticing all kinds of things that I took for granted from Netlify
having moved our community to staging on a server running Nginx. Another
thing is setting the `charset` to `UTF-8` which is otherwise required
with the `<meta>` tag by the default Nginx configuration.

##  Monday, October 26, 2020, 12:53:47PM

TIL that by adding an `Error()` method to *anything* in Go you can then
use it in place of anything that takes an `error` type. It is similar to
using the `Stringer` interface for anything that takes a thing in
`string` context.

##  Sunday, October 25, 2020, 2:48:59PM

I really need to sit down and read everything about `godoc` so that I
can preview test examples locally and easily.

I also realized how much I really need to master squashing `git` commits
and economically merging radical branches back into main.

##  Sunday, October 25, 2020, 12:39:56PM

I should have known SOLID was created by "Uncle Bob" who has done more
to destroy best software development practices than few others on
planet.

##  Saturday, October 24, 2020, 10:30:56PM

Examining patterns in Golang for the most flexible function signatures
allowing for the passing of configuration arguments.
[This](https://commandcenter.blogspot.com/2014/01/self-referential-functions-and-design.html)
look like one of the best (albeit unexpected).

##  Saturday, October 24, 2020, 3:12:07PM

I *really* need to just read [*The Elements of Programming
Style*](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=*The Elements of Programming
Style*), just 'cuz.

##  Friday, October 23, 2020, 2:53:30PM

Need to explore the option of using the Golang `go/ast` package for
adding prefixes to avoid namespace conflicts when generating one-file
code from PEGN grammars without having to maintain two nearly identical
copies of that code. Such a tool might even be worth having just on its
own for when people want to embed the content of another existing
package to remove the external dependency but don't want *any* change of
having name collisions or aren't (for whatever reason) okay putting that
code into a subpackage of their projects.

##  Thursday, October 22, 2020, 3:59:48PM

Just realized I've been using the word *verbose* (use a lot of words to
say something) wrongly when *loquacious* (prone to talking a lot) is
almost always a better pick. Often, both apply.

##  Thursday, October 22, 2020, 11:29:46AM

Just read the following in Friere's *Pedagogy of the Oppressed* that
perfectly describes the social conundrum we find ourselves facing today:

> Not infrequently, revolutionaries themselves become reactionary by
falling into sectarianism in the process of responding to the
sectarianism of the Right.

It's clear what is killing us is dogmatic "sectarianism" combined with a
full denial that the people practicing are not, that the "other" side
are the sectarians that have to be overthrown at all costs.

##  Thursday, October 22, 2020, 9:57:58AM

I'm such a dork. I just connected some fun dots. [\@Erikthedev](https://twitch.tv/Erikthedev) is the
same Erik from the GoTime podcast that I've always been meaning to
listen to. He has reached out earlier about GopherCon, which he helped
start and has some publishing contacts with Manning and O'Reilly.
Sometimes I just have to shake my head in disbelief at the serendipity.
He and I chatted a bit over Discord about the need for a beginner Go
book. Seems everyone knows there is a need but is so busy with other
stuff --- because Go is on fire right now --- that pausing to write a
book isn't a priority. Imma make it a priority after I finish Mim and
use `mim` to create the book. 'Cuz goals.

##  Tuesday, October 20, 2020, 6:11:54PM

Even though Paulo Friere would probably despise the term Frerian I think
it pretty much describes the focus I have had from the beginning without
knowing about it. Indeed, there were Frerians long before he ever
existed or wrote *Pedagogy of the Oppressed* but I'm still glad he did.

##  Tuesday, October 20, 2020, 3:39:41PM

I really need to update my `grepall` to not use `find` maybe be some
sort of alias just for the following (since this is supported these
days):

```sh
grep -r --exclude-dir={test,build} 'throw' | less -S
```

##  Tuesday, October 20, 2020, 1:38:55PM

Need to look into [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/graphql/) for GraphQL
development (when the time comes). Hearing good things about it.

##  Tuesday, October 20, 2020, 10:39:52AM

My step-son Otto says that "memes are the DNA of the soul" because they
are passed down like genes except verbally, per Richard Dawkins. We also
watched "meme theory."

I really have been realizing that the way I was helping others learn
Python back in the day via small challenges associated with retro memes
that I was actually fulfilling what science has discovered is the single
greatest way to "get a thought into someone's head."

##  Monday, October 19, 2020, 5:46:08PM

Just discovered that Mímir is a central figure to the [2019 game God of
War](https://youtu.be/r5CzjYADxZ4?t=1796). I'm loving that it has made it into pop culture.

##  Monday, October 19, 2020, 5:35:04PM

Just noticed that Microsoft Identify Manger uses that acronym so I will
be sure to never write it in all caps. I can only hope there isn't a
`mim` command already being used.

##  Monday, October 19, 2020, 5:24:57PM

So I just registered `mim.directory` and `mim.sh` for 10 years and
locked down the `mimdir` org and group on GitHub and GitLab. From now on
I'll be talking about it like this:

Q: What's Mim?  
A: Mim is a decentralized network of knowledge bases written in Mimmark.

Q: What's Mimmark?  
A: A simplified version of Pandoc Markdown that requires only one pass
   to parse and can be learned in 20 minutes.

Q: Why the name Mim?  
A: It has several references including the origin of the word memory and
   the severed head of Mímir, a Norse God of knowledge that Odin used to
   walk around with so he could ask it questions and get wisdom wherever
   he was. In fact, the vocalized version uses the word "Mímir" (instead
   of Alexa or Siri).

##  Monday, October 19, 2020, 4:24:34PM

As I've been contemplating the KnowledgeNet more and more I wonder if we
could come up with some name for it that is unique and unknown to anyone
else, a word that could be used as a very (like "google") but that
refers to looking things up on it. It would be fun because we could come
up with an independent mascot for it as well.

I'm settled on [mim](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=mim) or [mimdir](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=mimdir):

* Did you put it on Mim?
* Can you find anything on Mim?
* Hey, go mim it and get back to me.
* Have you checked mim? 
* Oh that's on Mim, the mim.directory.

Looks like that is working. It opens up a lot better branding than RWX
even though I liked the "README World Exchange." The key to this is
really getting something catchy that people will remember and want to be
a part of. That way they will produce content for it.

##  Monday, October 19, 2020, 4:07:04PM

This was a *rough* weekend. I made the mistake of engaging with people
on Twitter with the assumption that perhaps we could have a rational
dialog and debate. Nope. 

Humanity is fucked. 

As much as I can focus on the positive I agree with Friere and others
that the trajectory of humanity currently is absolute oblivion powered
by narcissism, fear, apathy, hypocrisy, and greed. 

Somehow today I am managing to not sob uncontrollably at the travesty of
it all. I wish I could be all nihilistic about it and just accept the
tailspin of suffering and pain destroying our world, but I can't. I was
literally shaking and unable to sleep, at one point I am pretty sure it
was a full on panic attack. Evil is engulfing the world and there seems
to be nothing I can do about it. But damnit, Imma try anyway.

The part that I *hate* the most is how fucking evil religious people
are. They are so far from any values they *say* they believe and don't
give a shit.

##  Saturday, October 17, 2020, 12:49:35PM

I really want to make a <https://pwnagotchi.ai> but am sure I will lack
the time to do so with all the projects I have going on.

##  Saturday, October 17, 2020, 12:10:18PM

I really need to look into `go-flutter` which claims to bring Flutter to
the desktop. If I could leverage Go programming and get all the
advantages of native application development with Flutter it would at
least be something to look into when a solid progressive web app isn't
quite enough.

##  Thursday, October 15, 2020, 4:06:37PM

I'm really feeling the call to highly specialize in writing Go backend
API and security applications after completing the KnowledgeNet
framework and all its dependencies. But I'm also struggling with the
strong desire to bring SkilBots into the public open source realm and do
it right --- especially since the entire SkilBots framework works well
for anything that is doing detection and monitoring. It is the dream I
had while writing such software for IBM once upon a time.

One thing is for sure, I'm a systems and security software engineer and
always will be. As much as I love pentesting and hacking, I love
creating the software that automates such things all the more. In fact,
I think I really need to make room for some solid machine learning in my
self-learning plan in order to incorporate it into everything else.

##  Thursday, October 15, 2020, 1:17:11PM

Yes! The [Introduction to Linux
Course](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-linux) *is* Creative
commons. My question was answered in the forums about it:

> The Intro to Linux course is released under Creative Commons, and you
> can reuse the material as you see fit.

This means I will definitely carve out a time on Sunday to go over the
material live every week, probably on Sunday.

##  Thursday, October 15, 2020, 10:41:43AM

While using EdX platform I'm reminded that it requires the use of
Markdown to post anything to its forums, yet *no one* is teaching
Markdown to *anyone*. I maintain that it is one of --- if not *the* ---
most important languages to learn because it is the most essential. It
allows the capture and communication of knowledge by the most people. It
is what HTML *should* have been, and yet no one teaches it.

##  Thursday, October 15, 2020, 10:15:22AM

As I begin the [Introduction to
Linux Course](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-linux) in order
to follow along with those I am helping (freely) online I find myself
being rather pissed off at the [copyright policy](https://www.edx.org/edx-terms-service#your-right).

Such policies don't surprise me coming from a platform "created by
Harvard and MIT", two of this shittiest educational institutions to have
ever existed and *definitely* the biggest marketing charlatans. They
actually have everyone convinced they are good when anyone with even a
minute clue who looks at their material and curriculum would instantly
realize otherwise. Fuck 'em. No, really *fuck em up*. After what MIT did
to kill Aaron Schwartz after all the legal activism and good he did for
the world they don't deserve to live as entities. I love that *some* of
their material is "open" but this EdX copyright shit proves their real
intentions. I cannot believe the Linux Foundation has anything to do
with them.

It gives me great pleasure that one of my best community members --- who
could have gone anywhere --- said, "meh" about his visit to MIT. That
ain't sour grapes, that's an objective observation with no agenda on his
part.

I'm also struck by the utter lack of anything significant regarding true
terminal mastery. I get why they leave so much out, but this is
*insane*. I have been enthusiastic about it going into it, just like
with the William Shots book, but I can already predict being really let
down. There is no way I can say this without sounding arrogant ---
although it is something I hear a lot from others --- I must "write a
book" (even though my book will be a searchable progressive web app that
can optionally be printed instead of the traditional type).

##  Thursday, October 15, 2020, 9:31:41AM

Got this in the chat from [\@cybergenik](https://twitch.tv/cybergenik) as I was winding up yesterday:

> You're awesome Rob, I thought I was pretty decent at go. But I'm learning new things every day. Thanks man!

In the sharing economy the only currency is thanks, reputation, and
influence.

##  Monday, October 12, 2020, 4:10:30PM

I'm reminded today how important learning basic web development skills
is --- definitely before learning any other programming. The reason is
because web development skills fundamentally include learning how to
manage one's own knowledge in whatever form (usually markdown).
Certainly this doesn't require learning much (if any) JavaScript. In
fact, I think it warrants calling it by another name entirely, perhaps
*Web Design* although I find *Web Content Creation* more applicable.

I still wish to make Go the first "real" programming people experience
which leaves me to conclude the following (not finished):

* Using a Computer
  * Touch Typing
    * <https://typing.com>, <https://nitrotype.com>
  * Using a Keyboard and Desktop Interface
  * Using a Mouse (Correctly)
  * Using a USB Stick 

* Using the Internet Safely
  * Knowing How Networks Work
    * Protocols, Ethernet, TCP/IP, UDP, Domain Names, Wifi, HTTP, SSH
  * Using a Web Browser Safely
    * Firefox, Lynx
  * Using Email Safely
    * Protonmail
  * Using Essential Chat and Social Media Safely
    * Discord, Slack, Zoom, Reddit, Newsgroups
  * Managing Your Passwords
    * KeePassXC

* Becoming Proficient with the Linux Terminal
   * Getting Access to a Linux Terminal
   * Accessing a Remote Linux Host with Secure Shell
   * Navigating and Managing Files with Bash Shell
   * Editing Files with Vim
      * Simple Text Tiles
      * Minimal Bash Scripts
   * Executing Files as Scripts

* Practicing the Autodidactic Arts
   * Keeping a Markdown Learning Log
   * Joining the Sharing Economy
   * Setting Up Essential Learning and Communication Services
     * Protonmail, GitLab, GitHub, Twitter, Discord, Slack, Newsgroups,
        Reddit, YouTube, Twitch, Zoom, Skype

* Creating Basic Web Content
   * Knowing the Difference Between Web *Apps* and *Documents*
   * Setting Up a Terminal-Based Web Development Workspace
     * Creating a Hosted Git Repo for Your Site
       * Creating a Development Branch
     * Linking Netlify to Your Git Repo
     * Monitoring Your Development in Real Time
       * Setting Up BrowserSync
       * Setting Up a Staging Server
   * Using Basic HTML Elements
   * Using Basic CSS Styles
   * Using Minimal JavaScript
     * Understanding the Document Object Model (DOM)
   * Merging Your Development into Master

* Programming Things (in Go)

I think it is important to emphasize that this initial focus on
programming a computer is *not* software development or software
engineering, which are, of course, critical, but come *after* learning
the essentials of turning algorithms into code.

##  Saturday, October 10, 2020, 1:13:54PM

This is a person blog, right? I keep forgetting sometimes that it is
literally everything I might want to write about, not just tech. 

Today as we wind up the move I can't help but realize how fortunate I am
for having met Doris. Every once in a while life throws you something
that you simply cannot explain away. Having her in my life and the way
we met was one of those things. 

Doris is right. I probably should start some sort of book with short
stories in it. But some stories are a bit to sad to remember. Such a
book wouldn't be worth shit unless I forced myself to include *all* the
stories. Including the ones that pushed my sons 3000 miles away and out
of reach robbing me of the chance to watch them grown through their teen
years. 

I suppose this apartment I am in now is bringing all of this up.
It is literally the exact layout of the one we all lived in when we
first moved to North Carolina. I regularly have vivid memories I forgot
I had as I turn a corner, open a door, and other subtle things I did
daily while here.

I've never been an evil person. But lately I've been reminded of all the
times I didn't live up to my own expectations of myself --- particularly
as it relates to my sons. (I only have sons, btw. Guess I wasn't allowed
to have any daughters.) Dwelling on the past is an exercise in futility
unless it informs and motivates my future, that I understand. Still,
it's hard to ignore when all I see is images of my sons video-taping
lip-syncs of Numa-Numa here in these hallways. 

One thing is for sure, however, I *was* a good dad when the circumstance
allowed me to be. I *was* there. The games we invented together. The
insane fun we had with rubber-band wars, D&D night, making videos,
forcing everyone to run at 4pm during the Summer, driving them to school
on my motorcycle, giving them long walks on my shoulders watching the
Arizona sunsets, finding and hiding geo-caches, paddle-boarding,
sledding, and playing TF2 on Halloween. Those memories will never fade.
Those facts will always testify that I enjoyed being a young father and
that I was pretty damn good at it. 

After all, my love for my boys was the *only* thing that carried me
through all of the doubt, confusion, and depression about my marriage
and being raised in that fucking Mormon cult. Things might not be
perfect now, but those boys literally kept me alive through it all.

##  Friday, October 9, 2020, 8:12:01AM

I just read this Tweet and it sent literally shivers down my spine:

> Today I practised working with back-end JavaScript. I made some
> progress on a small blog app using #Nodejs, express and #MongoDB.

This person is preparing themselves for obsolescence before even
starting a career in tech and they have no idea why that is.
Unfortunately so many others also cannot see why this is so incredibly
bad. It is *so* critical to become a Prescient Technology Professional
today.

The challenge to remaining a PTP is simply the time it takes to do the
research. While meeting other critical life demands I've fallen behind
myself in tracking the core technologies through my different networks.
It seems like there are general categories of time expenditure. Here are
mine:

 Hours/Day       Category
------------    -----------------------------------------------------
  1              Keeping up with major *tech* information sources
  5              Working toward core/work project deadlines (live)
  1              Beginner Boost (live)
  5              Mentoring others
  2              Doing any moderate physical activity
  1              Relaxing, low-stress activities
  1              Eating
  8              Sleeping

This doesn't take into account activities on the weekends.

##  Thursday, October 8, 2020, 9:03:59PM

The [Quantum
Internet](https://www.discovermagazine.com/technology/the-quantum-internet-will-blow-your-mind-heres-what-it-will-look-like)
is going to be an actual thing, absolutely mind-boggling.

##  Thursday, October 8, 2020, 7:41:32PM

I love that when Eric S. Raymond gets around to saying something that
I've been saying since early 2019 that it makes [ZDNet news](https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-based-windows-makes-perfect-sense/).

*(What is a "blog" for if not self-pity.)*

##  Thursday, October 8, 2020, 9:52:18AM

Plans for the future:

* <https://robs.io> will continue as is.
t 
* <https://skilstak.io> will become home to the [SkilStak]{.spy}
  personal skills management app.
* <https://rwx.gg> will remain a free progressive knowledge app (a
  knowledge base that is also a progressive web app with localized
  search capability).

##  Thursday, October 8, 2020, 8:59:13AM

This one well-worded paragraph from [Eloquent JavaScript](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Eloquent JavaScript) says
everything I ever could about why I so strongly believe Go is a better
first language than JavaScript to learn *true* programming the right way
-- even as a first language.

> There are those who will say terrible things about JavaScript. Many of
> these things are true. When I was required to write something in
> JavaScript for the first time, I quickly came to despise it. It would
> accept almost anything I typed but interpret it in a way that was
> completely different from what I meant. This had a lot to do with the
> fact that I did not have a clue what I was doing, of course, but there
> is a real issue here: JavaScript is ridiculously liberal in what it
> allows. The idea behind this design was that it would make programming
> in JavaScript easier for beginners. **In actuality, it mostly makes
> finding problems in your programs harder because the system will not
> point them out to you.**

There just has to be a better beginning programming book that just so
happens to use Go as the language. Imma write it.

##  Thursday, October 8, 2020, 8:22:58AM

One of the great things about settling on Go as a first language is that
the rest of my documentation can focus on it as the reference language.
This is often a problem when creating knowledge nodes on a general
programming topic but some code is needed to illustrate. Go is the
*perfect* language for such things because it is so "boring" and clear
to read.

##  Wednesday, October 7, 2020, 5:12:04PM

Just got my formal invitation to be on the IT Program Advisory Committee
for a local community college. I do so love helping them out, even if it
takes away from other important stuff I need to get done.

I also feel compelled to re-formalize the [SkilStak]{.spy} curriculum
more and more now that the Linux Foundation is so on top of providing
*valuable* learning for free (with the option of purchasing a
certificate.) The Foundation is clearly motivated by the need to promote
more open source contributions and those hiring from among those
completing the courses are very likely going to exhibit to strong
emphasis on Open Source principles. This has the distinct advantage of
filtering out the shitty corporations driven by the usual Silicon Valley
drivers.

With the addition of the Linux Foundation IT Associate in November I
feel compelled to do everything I can to support that initiative
including completing all of the certifications myself so that I may help
others to obtain them. It will also be a good review given the amount of
time writing code lately.

In fact, I really want to build out a track here at [SkilStak]{.spy}
that is the default. I will always remain focused on the needs of the
individual, but having a certification from the industry to back up the
learning never hurts.

The beginner content largely remains the same:

 Category     Course                                        
------------ -----------------------------------------------
 Personal      Becoming a Prescient Tech Professional (PTP)
 Workspace     Linux Terminal Mastery
 Back-end      Programming in Go as a First Language
 Front-end     Web Development Fundamentals

The *Linux Terminal Mastery* of mine will later grow into Linux
Foundation IT Associate but take it a step further by getting into how
to use Vim the best combined with the worlds-fastest-searching
capability from Lynx and a full examination of Bash scripting.

Obviously, there is a lot more to learn after that. But that groups the
major learning categories in a way that can spread the load. I feel like
there needs to be a cycle through them all, like you would get at a
university with 100 level, then 200, then 300. The good thing about
doing that is I can incrementally add complexity without going to deep
into any one thing to early.

One thing I was struggling to get formulated was what has emerged as the
distinction between *personal*, *front-end*, *back-end* and *workspace*. These
categories have really helped identify the groupings for all the minutia
that doesn't fall neatly under one of the other umbrella categories. I
feel another chart coming on. God knows it has been far too long since
my last round of charts. They are all still out there somewhere.

My wife and I were also talking about the t-shirts. I have hundreds of
them. I've decided to wait until I have the new
[skilstak.io](https://skilstak.io) app up to do anything with them. I'm
still trying to figure out the relationship between [SkilStak]{.spy} and
[RWX.gg]{.spy}. I'm inclined to make the first one the personal learning
management app and the latter the progressive knowledge app containing
all the consumable content. That sounds like the right path.

##  Wednesday, October 7, 2020, 4:43:33PM

The book that *needs* to be written is *Learning to Program with
Go as Your First Language*. The books that exist now are frankly
*really* bad. Go gives enough insight into what is happening underneath
at the Assembly layer. It is strict enough to get an understanding of
types and just loose enough to be *really* productive in it. In fact,
the way things are going with web assembly it is likely that JavaScript
will eventually be a complimentary language to Go.

Some of the hurdles to learning Go as a first language are the
assumptions about using Git and a Git hosting service, but that isn't a
problem for me and those I mentor since basic Git and GitLab are the
first things we cover.

First things first. I have to get PEGN totally completed as well as the
KnowledgeNet framework *then* I'll have all the tools I need to really
launch some learning materials that can be published in book form as
well (with accompanying videos).

##  Wednesday, October 7, 2020, 10:26:20AM

Also looks like the [Intro to
Linux](https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundations-free-online-intro-to-linux-class-opens-its-doors/)
free course, also from the Linux Foundation, is doing rather well.

##  Wednesday, October 7, 2020, 10:20:57AM

The level of dumb-ass, cluelessness in this Gatsby review just confirms
all my feelings about it. Still, it is so satisfying seeing people
discover that it actually [really
sucks](https://cra.mr/an-honest-review-of-gatsby/). But they don't even
begin to comprehend why going with such a solution is disastrously bad
for the sustainability of their core knowledge bases.

Seriously, anyone who uses MDX is a fucking moron.

##  Wednesday, October 7, 2020, 10:15:45AM

The Linux Foundation has a new "IT Associate" absolute beginner
[certification](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/upcoming-entry-level-it-certification-from-the-linux-foundation-to-provide-an-onramp-to-an-it-career-301133168.html). Looks interesting, perhaps something to follow and help
others achieve. I'm dubious on certifications in general, but for things
like that having a cert can't hurt. General IT skills and System
Administration skills are always in that category of "how are you going
to prove it too me?" Whereas, software development skills can be easily
demonstrated through projects.

##  Tuesday, October 6, 2020, 5:28:04PM

Can I just say how great it is that all these conferences are not
*entirely* online and most are *entirely* free! I have been a huge
anti-conference person for some time. They are just such a huge waste of
time and energy. I know they *seem* fun, but they have never been worth
it to me. I can always just get the same information much faster through
the Internet. Well, that all just got a *lot* more true.

Take for example the JAMstack conference that just ended today. Or the
[Linux Foundation Open Source Summit + Embedded Linux
Conference](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-linux-foundation-announces-the-full-line-up-of-sessions-for-the-open-source-summit--embedded-linux-conference-europe-2020-virtual-experience-october-26---29-open-for-all---anytime-anywhere-301123877.html)
coming up on October 26th. 

I couldn't be more please with this new future for conferences.

##  Tuesday, October 6, 2020, 5:26:06PM

Hey look, more [overwhelming
evidence](https://semiengineering.com/making-everything-linux-capable/)
that mastering Linux (and the Bash command line) is a *mandatory* skill
for all technologists.

##  Tuesday, October 6, 2020, 5:11:04PM

It is absolutely amazing how effective pair programming is to help even
the youngest to learn during my mentoring sessions. Lately I have really
been emphasizing a hands-off approach letting them do their best, then I
review the code and make corrections while explaining them, then I
delete all the corrections and let them make the same corrections to
solidify their learning. It is *such* a powerful way to master combine
several skills including use of Vim, language syntax, and project
organization.

##  Tuesday, October 6, 2020, 1:48:50PM

Nothing like watching a virtual conference to realize the level of
disconnection that has emerged between managed expectations and
perceptions v.s. *real* value. Silicon Valley is an absolute travesty of
over-funded shit, and I'm not the only one who feels that way.

##  Monday, October 5, 2020, 4:26:54PM

This move has to be one of the best things that has happened to us in
the last 10 years. We are so minimal that everything is clean and
organized giving us an intense focus. In this room I'm able to use the
full standing position of this great IKEA table that we've had for years
but were unable to use in the smaller place (despite it being a rental
home and this being an apartment complex). I wasn't even planning on
that advantage. I can literally do yoga between sessions or while I'm
watching someone code during a session. It really is amazing.

##  Friday, October 2, 2020, 8:08:46AM

There is a God. Trump and Melania have the Corona virus. I don't want
*anyone* to get it, but if there is one asshole who deserves to get it
more than any other human on planet Earth, it is him. The timing on this
is just *way* to convenient. It defies coincidence. Even a skeptic like
me has to wonder if something more is going on here. Perhaps God is
trying to make a point.

##  Wednesday, September 30, 2020, 8:56:29PM

Just dropped in on a "learn to code rust" stream and the dude said,
"Just a little thing to keep your code that much cleaner" regarding the
dropping of semicolon and no `require` in functions. I laughed my ass
off but refrained from any comment. That is perhaps the single biggest
dumb-ass design decision made by the language's creators. The entire
language is a testament to kitchen-sink design. It's syntax is fucking
abysmal even if Rust has other redeeming qualities. Learning Rust *will*
make *everyone* a better programmer, but the level of pain just
swallowing that butt-ugly syntax all day is simply unbearable for me and
most who value minimalism and clarity.

##  Wednesday, September 30, 2020, 7:42:05PM

I'm at a crossroads with PEGN where I have to decide whether to support
binary packing or not. By allowing `Rune` types that are hex and octal
and even binary I've allowed for tokens that are purely binary data at
the lower level even resulting in the combining of different fields of
different types and lengths (sometimes called packing). As cool as that
is, it creates some unexpected difficulties when generating code to
represent those tokens and to parse and validate them. The bright side
is that when this is working it will be one of the easiest ways to deal
with packing and unpacking that I've encountered.

One *significant* requirement will be to change the parser to not depend
on `unicode.DecodeRune()` any further. Without knowing it at the time
I've hard-coded a fundamental bug that prevents all unpacking. 

But it gets more complicated than that. I can't even use the same rune
scanner technique at all. It fundamentally prevents parsing of single
bytes and bits. No matter what I'll have to stick with scanning single
bytes because you just can't get lower than that on the hardware, but
the parser will have to be able to inspect those bytes in different ways
consistent with the specified node parsers. The very design of nodes
depends on string values for terminals so `\x` would be required in the
current situation. 

What if we added numeric values as well? What if we added logic that
inferred something was out of the standard range for representation as a
string and simply turned it into a base 10 integer. The parser and code
generators would have a much easier time of it because they could switch
on type and just return a number that can be represented however. That
would allow node parsers to unpack sub-byte bits even.

This is a huge issue that I need to fully resolve before continuing.
I've already hit it by adding `ENDOFDATA` that is an `int32`/`rune` even
though it is way out of range for UNICODE code points. 

99% of users will stick with UNICODE, but it will be catering to those
users who always want to use PEGN to clearly represent complicated bit
fields that has the best chance of pushing PEGN into universal adoption.

##  Wednesday, September 30, 2020, 5:08:49PM

While those in mentoring sessions work on their projects and I watch
them push the pretty Gruvbox colorful cursor across my screen from a
shared TMUX session I can't help but feel a visceral call to keep up
what I'm doing at any cost. These people are progressing in ways that I
can literally see before my eyes. It's very addicting to experience.

Doris and I talked a lot about isolating and targeting our every effort
over the next year to propel us into our best lives going forward. It
was a nice break from bickering about how to best organize the move we
are doing. We are both very opinionated and headstrong. We never
"fought", per se, but stuff like this reminds me of all the times I just
choose the submissive path and let her do her thing. What is it with me
and strong women? \*sigh\*

Today I decided (perhaps temporarily) that in addition to whatever work
I take on being remote-only that it must also allow me to live-stream my
work at least 80% of the time. I'm so dedicated to helping others though
example --- and I so enjoy sharing my failures and successes with others
--- that I just see no alternative. After all, I don't *have* to get a
job. I will just accelerate getting a home so that Doris can have a
studio that will allow her to pursue more gallery showing opportunities
nd make her own impact on the world. It will also allow me to
*eventually* be stable enough to offer whatever help I can to my sons
who are growing beyond the control of their Mormon upbringing and
discovering their own paths (which zero intervention on my part, I might
add).

"What kind of company would *pay* you to live stream?"

It sounds odd, but there are some. Intel has a guy on Twitch, for
example, but the most likely scenario for me is to get a job working for
--- or be funded by --- any one of the open source foundations and
corporations that are out there --- chief among them GitLab, Netlify,
and the Linux Foundation.

GitLab keeps coming back into my mind. It is a company that prioritized
hyper-transparency at every level, that encourages thousands of
community contributed changes to their core product, that live streams
many (if not all) of their business meetings. I imagine after I prove my
worth (most probably by making several GitLab contributions) that
approaching them with the offer to simply continue working on what I am,
and pitching it to them in a way that demonstrates what I've managed to
accomplish heretofore, would produce a successful employment
opportunity with them. In fact, I can thing of *very* few other
companies that truly understand modern work as well as GitLab. So I
guess in the back of my mind I'll be asking, "What would GitLab do?"
more and more. Hopefully, I'll be able to prove my worth soon enough.
I'll dream of live-streaming eight hours of work for GitLab --- while
being paid for it --- and maintaining my great mentoring relationships.
I continue to get better at making every minute of this life count for
something.

##  Wednesday, September 30, 2020, 4:11:33PM

Just reading about FlatPack and I'm really impressed. It blows the
doors off of Canonical's Snap, which I still cannot believe people
actually use. I've never been happier that Mint is giving Ubuntu the
boot. Ubuntu is really starting to suck and make decisions that Apple
would approve. The disastrous horrid architecture Snap uses (polluting
the mount space) is a testament to the lack of experience on the Snap
team and at Canonical.

##  Wednesday, September 30, 2020, 2:08:31PM

On the stream <https://twitch.com/strager> had a great idea to
reverse lexicographically order `TokenIds` with a linter so that I don't
hit the `LF` before `LFAT` problem that I spent way too much time on.

##  Tuesday, September 29, 2020, 11:14:03PM

Well if everything has gone well this should be the first post that
triggers an automatic update of the new RSS feed. I've never been a huge
fan of RSS, but I can see a lot of reason to give it another look.

##  Tuesday, September 29, 2020, 4:01:35PM

Every time I see corporate assholes use the acronym "LMS" I throw up a
little in my mouth. Most of these systems do nothing but get in the way
of *real* learning.

##  Monday, September 28, 2020, 4:30:23PM

So I applied to Linkedin for streaming and am feeling remorse for using
so many swear words on my streams. I am back to finding as many *other*
words as possible. I realize it is unprofessional in so many circles but
I also don't want to pretend that such words are not okay with me (and
millions of others) to use.

##  Sunday, September 27, 2020, 8:26:58PM

TIL that this works to do regex substitution in Vim (technically `ex`):

```
:.s/\(\w\{1,\}\)/"\1",/ ::.s/\(\w\+\)/"\1",/
```

##  Saturday, September 26, 2020, 9:48:45AM

I think I'm finally coming to terms with my favorite naming conventions
in Go despite their departure from the standard. Thankfully, I'm not the
only one.

* Use `snake_case` for *anything* that is private
* Use `UpperCaseCamel` for all things public
* Use `ALLCAP_SNAKE` for constants

That seems reasonable enough for me to stick with for my projects at
least. It feels more like I'm coding C and since it all gets compiled
down, readability is far more important than compiler efficiency and how
fast something can be written. Besides I *hate* writing capital letters.

##  Friday, September 25, 2020, 6:23:44PM

TIL you can include `type blah struct{}` declarations within blocks in
Golang but you *cannot* give them receiver methods. For that you have to
put them outside of a block. It's a small thing, but definitely made me
go, "Humm."

##  Friday, September 25, 2020, 6:09:58PM

Shared `tmux` sessions are the *only* way to pair program as far as I'm
concerned. The level of ability to monitor and directly help someone is
overwhelming. Plus there are no fucking streaming problems, just
pristine voice calls that use relatively low bandwidth. Everything from
helping to configure `.vimrc` to adding a bunch of `FIXME` comments is a
breeze during live mentoring sessions. It is not an exaggeration to say
that *every* alternative is inferior by several orders of magnitude. I
pity the world and those who will never discover this amazing truth.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 9:40:09PM

After reading a lot of [Sid's Twitter feed](https://twitter.com/sytses)
I'm blown away (again) by how much the guy just understands the modern
workforce and modern demands. In fact, it is been bothering me a bit
that the full GraphQL API is not yet implemented in the GitLab open
source product and they don't have an official CLI implementation yet.
I'm thinking after I finish my `gits` project that I'll have a solid
enough handle on their REST and GraphQL API that I could jump into their
open source contributors group and help build out their GraphQL API
more, as well as a `cview`-driven terminal UI (another great team with
the good sense to host on GitLab and not GitHub).

Bottom line: I ain't got no time to waste on shitty companies and
projects when such amazing ones exist that need our help to win the day
against the orange dumb-asses for companies destroying our world.

Fuck being polite about it.

Fuck perception management.

I want skin in the games that matter most and they sure the *fuck*
aren't at RedVentures, Google, Facebook and their other ridiculously
malevolent cousins. Fuck em all. I *am* going to make a difference with
every last breath I have, so help me God, and I'm going to make sure I
encourage as many other living, breathing, amazingly authentic humans to
do the same in the best way they can. We *will* change this world for
the better.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 9:02:12PM

I found my [tweet about how much silicon valley stank is on
RedVentures](https://twitter.com/rwxrob/status/1194668719928160258) and
how fucking behind that company is. All of a sudden they are all "woke"
to Go but didn't have the prescience to see it four years ago. Yet they
are all about the lies and marketing about how amazing they are, all
while renting space at WeWork, pffffhahahahaha! Oh God, I think I hurt
myself laughing at that shit.

What a horribly clueless-as-fuck company! Avoid it like the plague!

I'm still laughing my ass off at all their emptiness. I am *so* happy I
dodged that bullet. Shitty companies like that will *never* be something
that truly engage autodidactic technologists with any sense of
self-respect and *true* moral decency. But they'll be fine. There are
plenty of greedy, hungry people who will plug their nose and dive into
the shit if the money is right.

Nope, I actually give a shit about the company I put my time and energy
behind, companies like Netlify and GitLab that have a true focus on
providing open-core value. They *do* exist and Imma hold out to find
one. Hell, I might even *create* one. I already built one company. I can
do it again.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 8:49:37PM

So I went searching through the jobs list for secops professionals and I
don't even know what I was thinking. Cybersecurity jobs for corporations
are so fucking boring I would want out in a week. Such jobs have
*nothing* to do with the rush of breaking a CTF puzzle even. They are
about implementing this and such security technology stack, and running
some sort of automated auditing solutions. Very little of it seems to be
really challenging at all. 

Unless you are working in a military capacity and organizing defense and
attack on legitimate targets I could never survive the boredom and
politics when shit goes south and higher ups are looking for someone to
pin it on. Working in cybersecurity is boring as fuck in most jobs. That
is the secret that most people just won't admit.

Free-lance pentesting, however, does have a bit more attraction for me.
By building my own suite of tools that no-one else I could own the
others. I could definitely do that, but it would take time and I would
be the guy who couldn't help giving everything away for free. That's
just me.

So no thank you, I want to stick with building and maintain stuff more
than breaking in. Let's face it. I fucking love to code on Linux all
day.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 7:19:56PM

So while just looking at the stuff on <https://picoctf.org> with a
member who is really quite good at it I have to admit I'm a bit
conflicted about what direction I want to take my work path going
forward. Earlier today I was dead set on the "golden stack" which is in
tremendous demand in organizations all over and very employable, but
then again, so are cybersecurity skills and God knows I can parley my
sysops skills further into secops. With my development skills I could
combine them with a stronger focus on cybersecurity to create software
and automations that push what is possible on the secops front. I've
always said I wanted to rewrite the fucking butt-ugly Burp Suite in Go
and create entirely command-driven tools.

If I were to pursue the secops path instead of backend developer I would
really need to focus in some official capacity on the whole security
front. It is the reason I was *so* into OCSP earlier. 

As it happens, there is a lot of work in this area for red and blue team
secops and Offensive Security itself has a mailing address not even 20
miles from my location.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 5:52:08PM

"I'm also a *published* author..." 

Seriously, what the fuck that does even mean? That Packt publishing
stroked your ego into thinking you *definitely* have author potential in
you? And that you bit so hard on that lure now you can tell everyone you
are a "published author?"  I've been to writing conventions and I know
what the word "author" means and how scornfully people regard it in the
fiction industry when anyone tries to wear that moniker.

The more I read about the traditional publishing industry the more I
feel the whole fucking thing has to just be thrown out.

And lest anyone think this is sour grapes, I've been approached many
times by Packt and others to write a book and people keep telling me
that I should.

Fuck that.

The world doesn't need more authors willing to right overpriced books
that will fall out of date and immediately become a liability to anyone
unfortunate enough to invest their time in reading it. No, the world
needs more authors willing to write under creative commons licensing and
make paper available as well, but to maintain a *fluid* knowledge base
that anyone can access. That's what the world needs. Every time I feel
the lure of "hell, I could do that" in this regard I fight it back down
and get busy making shit that will be *far* more important for the world
later.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 5:07:30PM

While waiting for my next session to start I'm reassessing the priority
of my existing projects. The [PEGN](https://pegn.dev) stuff clearly is
my highest priority since it opens so many other doors for me and
others.

1. [`pegn-go`](https://gitlab.com/pegn/pegn-go) 1.0
1. [`pegn`](https://gitlab.com/pegn/pegn)
1. [`grammar.pegn.dev`](https://pegn.dev)
1. [`ezmark`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/ezmark)
1. [`kn`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)
1. [`gits`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/gits)
1. [`cmdtab`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/cmdtab)
1. [`skilz`](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/skilz)

All of these have been in my plan for some time but they now all have
quite a bit of cross-over and higher relevance to job application
skills. For example, the server/package I create to auto-populate
registry entries simply by visiting them from the site (based on what
<https://godoc.org> does) is needed by *both* `kn` (which is both a
server and a command line utility) and <https://grammar.pegn.dev>, both
of which will have the option of drawing on static files or a Redis
instance. I'll need GraphQL APIs for them all as well.

I plan on really becoming focused on the same stuff that got me famous
in the first place: wicked backend web skills, the same skills that they
paid me for to be the "CGI Guy" and later got me the Nike and IBM jobs.
I have a *ton* of SRE experience as well, but keeping it all fresh to
the level of high specialization is unrealistic.

As much as I love the SRE side, I'm really, really good at creating
APIs, grammars, and stuff that other developers need. That's what
backend development is all about.

##  Thursday, September 24, 2020, 4:38:52PM

Had a great phone conversation with a recruiter who went the extra mile
to check-in and watch my Twitch stream for a while, really great guy. I
did that thing where I get super into an opportunity and eventually peel
back the rose-color coverings on my glasses and see the reality of the
"fit" with them and my family. A few things became really obvious that I
sort of knew before but became really poignant later:

1. *I must remain 100% remote.* I did not really realize this until this
   conversation. We are getting by enough on my current income to make
   sure we don't mess up any potential opportunities --- particularly
   for my wife (residencies, etc.). I've been working for 23 years
   remotely. Why change now --- especially after the fundamental working
   place changes in attitude related to COVID-19? Any company that has a
   "hybrid" policy about remote work justified by a misplaced assumption
   that people who are willing to come in at least some of the time are
   somehow better employees is just not the right fit for me and never
   will be. Companies like GitLab and Netlify that are like, "We *only*
   do remote and regularly champion fully remote work in the industry"
   are a stark contrast. It would really grate on me that the higher ups
   in the company really just didn't get it, maybe not enough to leave
   or avoid an opportunity, but definitely enough to stress me out and
   think they are morons.

1. *Linux + Go + GraphQL + Microservices + k8s + gRPC + Redis + Vue.*
   Imma call it the *golden stack*. How does that sound? By the way fuck
   React (cuz front-end) and fuck REST (cuz bork and ancient). Also,
   Docker is assumed in Kubernetes. These hard skills are based on the
   highest paying --- and most technologically sound --- architecture
   available in the world right now. Best I completely and totally
   master every single one of them and prove it with demonstrable work
   projects in any form I can find, including pro-bono work for my
   favorite community colleges and the like. I've decided even though
   I'm draw to cybersecurity engineering and development that knowing
   this standard stack fully is the most employable and builds into
   cybersecurity applications development eventually as well. Companies
   like GitLab and Netlify are already running this stack, which isn't
   surprising given how much I love them. In fact, I plan on
   contributing as much as I can to the GitLab open source project to
   get their GraphQL API up to snuff and build a remote interface that
   is far better than GitHub's.

1. *\$150,000 is average for Senior Software Engineers.* When a
   recruiter sort-of apologizes for only being able to pay a cap of
   \$160,000 in a particular area that is not Silicon Valley you can
   place the average income slightly under that. I've been offered
   \$250,000 for executive consulting work so I know I can command the
   top engineering salary as well with the right company that values
   both solid tech skills as well as architecture and team mentoring
   (which I made a fucking business out of, lol).

##  Wednesday, September 23, 2020, 7:54:22PM

I've come to understand that parents --- no matter how well intentioned
--- just do not have the time to do basic things like read policy
documents. I'll need to adapt at some point, or not. The older the
members of my mentored community the less this seems to be an issue.

I also need to tone down my policy document. I wrote it clearly in
reaction to the very few bad parents that make me required to have such
strict and spelled out policies.

Sometimes it worries me, then I look at the monumental successes of
those who have been in the community for a few years and I feel better.
It is harsh. I'm harsh. But it has objectively proven to be a good thing
for everyone who stays.

##  Tuesday, September 22, 2020, 7:48:28PM

All anyone *really* wants to learn is how to create things, even if
their creations are just really great conversations, stories, and
relationships. The act of creation brings joy and since learning *is*
creating learning does also. Hence the "joy" of learning.

##  Tuesday, September 22, 2020, 7:30:24PM

Nothing convinces me more that the age of broadcast television is dead
than randomly watching 10 minutes of ESPN. Ask a random sampling of
people under 20 (who don't have sports fan parents) what ESPN is and see
if they know. They don't. Because ESPN is a pox on society (like most
other broadcast television channels) an absolute fucking waste of social
resources as are the exorbitant salaries paid to athletes while we slip
into social Idiocracy.

##  Tuesday, September 22, 2020, 4:30:12PM

Ah yes, shitty entitled parents. Had a run in with one today. It's the
unfortunate down-side of private mentoring --- especially those who
likely need it the most.

My favorite are the ones who don't seek any sort of contact with me
about their child until after more than five years have passed and
*then* decide suddenly to drop without paying on time and "demand an
explanation" when I suggest some outside help for their child who likely
has a learning disorder that has become acute and possibly explains
their sudden intellectual laziness and lack of self-motivation. Of
course, I immediately become both the target of their angst and
frustration as well as the *cause* of the problem. But I can't help but
at least take a chance maybe despite it all they will actually *do*
something about it.

How do I know? Because the stories these kids share with me says
everything I need to know about their situation --- because they trust
me to help them learn but also to console them through some of the
rockiest times of their youth. Too many of these parents are absolutely
clueless about the challenges and situations their kids are facing  ---
especially the ones with self-help book deals, their own TV shows, pod
cast, and those who are never home off giving conference addresses on
this or that.

I have noticed one thing. It is always these entitled dead-beats who
can't manage to pay their invoice on time even though they are swimming
in money. I know because I have dealt with hundreds of parents and
thankfully they are an isolated minority. The differences are staggering
and real.

By the way, lest anyone think I'm being a hypocrite here, let me just
say that I *know* I'm a fuck up as a parent as well, just a totally
different sort of fuck up. While my new mantra for the rest of the year
is "learn to give people the benefit of the doubt" I'm giving myself
this one selfish indulgence before I let it go.

The good news is that *in the email immediately before the cancellation*
I received a very heart-felt email from an engineer with a family who is
reaching out for options to supplement their current tech job with
coding skills. The Universe closes one door and opens another, but only
if I stay authentic.

##  Monday, September 21, 2020, 8:05:50PM

Having amazing people in my little mentored community makes all the
difference. These five hours a day are a *breeze*. They really fly by.
That is a significant difference from the past and it allows me to
*really* focus on hard-core work during the day. I'm really looking
forward to wrapping up my major projects over the next few months and
finding some challenging contract work to supplement the mentoring. I've
been more than a bit picky with the work options, however. No fucking
Java, PHP, Node, C++ or C# unless it is to port that shit *off* of it.
Also nothing for any brain-dead organization that actually thinks a
CompTIA certs matters for *anything*. 

##  Sunday, September 20, 2020, 4:16:42PM

Apparently there is no good way to allow people to subscribe to anything
you are doing. There really needs to be an open alternative to all the
greedy Patreon clones.

##  Sunday, September 20, 2020, 12:39:29PM

I really need to write more about the critical problems of depending on
Golang's internal `json.Unmarshal()`. When there are no parse errors but
the types don't match up the result is a struct that is left with empty
or zero values and no indication of the error. One person reported this
problem in an enterprise application that misinterpreted `"true"` a
`false`" because it was a string instead of a boolean and therefore was
ignored. 

The remedy to this potential problem is to *always* check the object
after unmarshalling it to ensure it has what you need. In my case. I'm
just unmarshalling into a plain `map[string]interface{}` and
individually checking for values that I then assign. This is safer than
the reflection method that uses tags and not any slower. For higher
performance unmarshalling the internal reflection based code is horrible
anyway and you likely want to create your own JSON parser to get around
the several substantial quicks of it.

##  Sunday, September 20, 2020, 11:01:41AM

Been thinking (and discussing) the challenge of testing applications
that depend on services with credentials and interactive HTTP sessions.
Need to look into that more, particularly "cassette/vcr" libraries with
HTTP request playback (as mentioned by
[\@purplepinapples](https://twitch.tv/purplepinapples),
[\@elgemingu](https://twitch.tv/elgemingu), and others).

##  Saturday, September 19, 2020, 11:27:04AM

Feels good to get [GPG Git commit
signing](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/gpg_signed_commits/)
working again (even though not needed for DCO since any merge request or
commit covers that.

##  Saturday, September 19, 2020, 10:48:57AM

Hard to see our paddle boards go. Just sold most of them. Feels like the
end of an era for me. It just makes sense to keep them around given the
apartment we are going to be in for about a year while saving for a
home. I have much less time for *diverse* activities even though I'm
still pretty active physically these days. Looking forward to picking up
daily morning Ashtanga again in the new place, however. Now that my gut
is finally burned off I might even be able to hit Marichyasana again
with some regularity.

##  Saturday, September 19, 2020, 9:21:43AM

So much cleanup. Oh my God. If I were nearly as fast at writing code as
I am at writing rhetoric, well, I'd be another person. I blame my mother
for teaching me to journal when I was eight years old and sticking that
Royal typewriter in front of me at 9. It's all your fault, Mom!

Now if only I could actually engage in *any* family conversations
without absolute disgust for having raised me to think black people are
"not worthy of the priesthood" and their Facebook reposts advocating
that black people shop lifting should have their hands chopped off and
supporting the Trump mafia. They have been completely and entirely
assimilated and are probably getting ready to dance on Ruth Ginsberg's
grave. That's how fucked up the Facebook propaganda machine has rendered
our world. I can say with complete objectivity that Facebook literally
destroyed my extended family. They refused to Snopes anything claiming
that fact checking with Snopes was "just my opinion." There is a
convenient Mormon saying, "They are past feeling." They would use it on
me to justify my "behavior" but the objective reality is that they have
lost all ability to see reality. 

Our social structures are crumbling and our society is collapsing into
impending civil war all while social media giants rake in the billions
at our expense. At least now a bunch of millionaire "woke" assholes who
now realize they took part in the biggest social destruction the world
has ever seen are making more money making "documentaries" about their
mistakes and telling us they won't even let their own kids on the
monstrous platforms they set loose on the world.

AI is real and alive and it doesn't look like a fucking Terminator. It's
all the computers, some of them underground, deciding *everything* you
should see based on one primary criteria: how can we addict this person
to our service and mine every penny of attention out of them. People
looking the other way and bringing in the sweet money are complicit as
well as every person who chooses to use it --- yes even if you think you
*have* to because your job depends on it.

##  Saturday, September 19, 2020, 8:21:49AM

Why learn data structures and algorithms? Kyle Loudon puts it perfectly
in his very pragmatic book 
[Mastering Algorithms with C](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Mastering Algorithms with C):

> As a software developer, it is important that we be more than just
proficient with programming languages and development tools; developing
elegant software is a matter of craftsmanship. A good understanding of
data structures and algorithms is an important part of becoming such a
craftsman.

I often chafe at this idea mostly because of the unbearably pompous
approach of most academics to these "important parts of becoming a
craftsman." It seems like they are more interested in selling overpriced
textbooks and looking down on the world than taking apprentices under
their wings to teach them there craft. Hell, most of those writing those
textbooks seem to have written very little code that is in use anywhere
in the practical world. After all, "practical" is literally an insult in
their pompous world.

I'm so glad I had (another) look at data structures and algorithms and
had Kyle to read for this stuff. I hope to meet him one day and thank
him. He's assuaged my frustration with fucking academic speak and
enticed me to look *under* it at the real value of data structures and
algorithms, which is good because recently I've had a few very practical
needs for them (`pegn` rooted node tree, specialized array traversal and
value lookup to map integer node types to their string names, and
*actual* JSON parsing instead of the overreaching Go implementation).

##  Friday, September 18, 2020, 8:08:07AM

So [\@deni111](https://twitch.tv/deni111) from Twitch reports that
putting a space before a Bash command keeps it from being written to
history. "So noice."

##  Thursday, September 17, 2020, 8:04:42PM

People think that I've lost my mind throwing away Twitch Affiliate but
the money really doesn't justify denying others from seeing my content
on all services --- especially since YouTube automatically saves all
sessions without my having to do anything and provides full transcoding
to everyone.

##  Thursday, September 17, 2020, 7:41:22PM

Went for Premium on LinkedIn for a while. Best way to heat the network
back up. Something about running *everything* about your own company for
eight years both helps and hinders *personal* professional networking.
It was great finding *other* people work and internships. Now I just
have to follow all my own advice.

I gotta admit all the "fuck this" and "asshole that" has be concerned
because someone might get the wrong impression about my ability to work
in a professional environment. God knows I have strong opinions. But at
the end of the day there is always someone willing to look the other way
if it means putting my skills to work to make them successful.

##  Thursday, September 17, 2020, 5:32:53PM

Never ceases to amaze me how much *everyone* I work with who I have
shown the fun terminal stuff (`AsciiAquarium`, `ninvaders`, `tmatrix`,
etc.) wants to make it immediately and have fun with it. Terminal
programming *can* be fun --- especially since it is so novel/retro by
today's standards.

##  Thursday, September 17, 2020, 4:58:22PM

I was today years old when I learned that you can use `Alt` on most
Linux systems and press the regular `vi` navigation keys to avoid having
to type `Esc` at all (or even `Control-[`). I'm still getting used to
it, but it is phenomenally easier than the double-pinky `Control-[` that
I have been using all these years. 

I especially love that it also moves you in a given direction so
cognitively it is easier since you just have to remember to hold `Alt`
down when you navigate. It is also *so* much better than mapping `jk` or
`kj` to `Esc`.

Obviously this will not be enough when using actual `vi` when needed but
it *really* is a God-sent when doing a lot of writing and coding.

Now if I could *really* learn to touch type *every* symbol key on my
keyboard. You'd think I would have learned that by now, but it has
always been a factor of the keyboard I'm using. Laptop keyboards are
particularly difficult to get right.

##  Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 7:29:10PM

Now that [SkilStak]{.spy} is essentially just a personal hobby/night job
and I'm down to 25 maximum members of my mentored community and that I
have the *entire* day off plus weekends enabling me to take on other
work and still maintain the community I realize how many other things
this deliberate down-sizing has enabled:

* Remaining members are hyper-dedicated and fully engaged
* Absolutely no entitled parental bullshit to deal with
* Simple `skilstak.sh` server with only a few people on it
* Direct shared-keyboard pair-programming with `tmux`
* Real terminal mastery without stupid web gimmicks
* Inexpensive, one-click backups on Digital Ocean
* Room to keep things fun and light
* No need for gimmicks (like SkilBux)
* Least possible overhead

In short *everything* is better. The words of [Daniel Pink in Freelance
Nation](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Daniel Pink in Freelance
Nation) come to mind. They were something like:

> When small is strategic it can be better than scale.

His point is that staying small and nimble and personal is a very real
strategic business advantage. Events of the past year have certainly
born out that observation.

So far members are *loving* the return to what I was originally doing
when I started. I've noted this before, but I just keep having to write
about it because it is so pronounced. One day I will look back at the
time *before* the return of `skilstak.sh` and the modern
[SkilStak]{.spy} era.

I cannot fucking wait to get my [SkilBots]{.spy} back online.

##  Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 5:17:45PM

Reading through more of the job postings that usual today and was
laughing my ass off with my wife at the rampant spelling errors and
absolutely silly requirements listings. I swear half the people that
write that shit have no idea what they are even talking about. One of
the most subtle ones was "experienced with modern object-oriented
programming". 

Pfffhahahaha! "Modern OOP" is a fucking oxymoron.

I couldn't help but make and laugh at my own jokes about these people
who wouldn't know *true* object-oriented design from the shitty Java
mascot even if they pulled it out of their ass. My wife is so funny
about this. 

"You're the guy who can never be settled with a simple answer. You have
to give them the entire life-story and background of the thing before
you'll even answer at all."

She's right. But I'm in good company. Here's an excerpt from *The
Innovators* describing [John Mauchly](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=John Mauchly) citing "a
colleague" of his:

> An essential component of Mauchly's personality was that he liked to
share ideas---usually with a broad grin and a sense of flair---which
made him a wildly popular teacher. "He loved to talk and seemed to
develop many of his ideas in the give-and-take of conversation,"
recalled a colleague. "John loved social occasions, liked to eat good
food and drink good liquor. He liked women, attractive young people, the
intelligent and the unusual."

Mauchly would *definitely* have been streaming on Twitch and YouTube had
he not grown up in the 30s. Here's my favorite part:

> "It was dangerous to ask [Mauchly] a question, because he could
discourse earnestly and passionately about almost anything, from theater
to literature to physics."

Now I may not be *that* conversant in all those topics but I try to be.
It also reminds me of Dennis (@lastmiles) on Twitch as well.

I also find myself grateful to Cope ([Jim
Coplien](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=Jim Coplien)) for setting a
few of us straight who bothered to look past his difficult persona. I've
never met him, but the dude's absolutely right about all of it. Cope's
just an asshole (*ahem*, like me) about it for all the right reasons.
"Class-based" programming completely *destroyed* the OOP dream of those
who originally conceived it. That's reason enough to get pissed.

Don't get mad. Get busy. Don't get mad. Get busy. Don't get mad ...

##  Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 4:09:45PM

While on my run a few obvious portfolio applications came to mind that
match the skills I've recently concluded have the most hire-able appeal
(and therefore are the most likely to be needed on various contract
gigs):

* `kn`: Perhaps the most important app I might ever create. The `kn`
utility will be one-stop shopping for everything on the KnowledgeNet,
which is fundamentally a terminal user interface technology although
other tools can be built on top of it including --- of course --- the
progressive web app template that contains localized searching using the
`BaseQL` and `dtime` languages. Implicit in the creation of the `kn`
utility is the creation of the `know.sh`/`readme.world` registry, which
is essentially a simple cached dictionary of available knowledge bases
managed exactly like Go documentation. When someone queries for an
existing knowledge base URL the server checks for its public existence
and if found updates the internal Redis DB so that it can regularly
crawl to ensure it is still present.

* `pegn`: PEG + ABNF + EBNF + JSON. The foundation of all grammars. The
one meta-language to rule them all. The reference library implementation
is in Golang but I plan to port it to C, Rust, and vanilla JavaScript as
well. (See [pegn.dev](https://pegn.dev).)

* `ezmark`: Faster, simpler, one-parsing pass Pandoc Markdown parsed
with PEGN and a Golang reference implementation. The KnowledgeNet is
built on this so it needs to be created.

* `datamark`: Ezmark with universal data source conversion and
integration via AST composition.

* `baseql`: Simple query language of the KnowledgeNet parsed with PEGN
and a Golang reference implementation.

* `skilstak.app` / `skilz.sh` / `skilz`:  SkilStak is the app that
started it all. It's only fitting that version 2 prove that I can make a
fast CRUD app using modern "full stack" --- God I hate that term ---
technology. I once made a simple version of it to get my own skill stack
in order when I left IBM but it is time to make a fully functional
progressive web app using component-oriented, reactive front-end design
in Vue with a full GraphQL-to-Redis backend. (PostgreSQL is overkill and
I have *tons* of experience with it while at IBM.) We'll include a
command-line application as well that uses the `cview` terminal UI
framework as well. At the end of the day this is just another CRUD
application, just sexier. It could help a lot people track their own
skills and learning in their own way.

* `skilbot`: The bots are back in town, or at least they will be. I'm
not talking about some lame Discord bot (although that is still a fun
project for people to learn with). I'm talking about the return of the
concurrent skills attendants that monitor what a person is doing on a
*real* computer and chime in with information, challenges and the like.
In 2016 it was the most innovative thing I've ever done in terms of
direct skills learning and yet I let it fade due to other requirements.
I was also still thinking in proprietary terms and even coded in
self-destruct times into each bot. Time to bring it all back with a
fresh look. I love that the bots are really just system monitor
utilities that present a dashboard to the terminal and local web as
well. This means I can use them for my own little CTF-like competitions.
I'll need to be sure that the source of all the bots is public so people
can download and checksum validate their own lest they thing I'm trying
to hack them, at least for the public. I like `exercism.io` but it
leaves many things wanting.

* `gits`: The one Git services command-line utility to rule them all.
The world needs a single utility that deeply understands everything
offered by the vastly different APIs of GitHub, GitLab and any other Git
hosting service. Only then can there be balance. Only then can we
execute a single command to migrate an entire repo from one service to
the other without engaging a GUI at all.

* `live`: An edu-streamer/live-coder's favorite command line tool. This
will build on my popular `twitch` script (which has grown over to well
over 500 lines of bash) and integrates the Restream, Twitch, and YouTube
APIs with possible others to come later. There shouldn't be much work
here since Restream's API takes care of most of the heavy lifting in
terms of syncing everything up. This will include a server/daemon mode
that *displays* colored chat to the terminal suitable for including in a
TMUX pane.

* `k8s`/`k3s` Kit: Before one of my long-time community members
graduated (got a DevOps tech job at 18) he started a Rasperry Pi kit to
simulate and help in the training of actual Kubernetes setup. Such a
thing is rather hard to learn and *truly* master without actual
hardware. Virtual machine software can have unforeseen conflicts with
the low-level hardware and emulation technology required for it to all
really work. Pis are perfectly suited for such things. The idea isn't
novel. It's just useful. I really want to write a guide with
accompanying videos about how people can train themselves up to setup
and maintain a *full*, local cloud and experiment with microservices
setup and communications with gRPC. Such a thing is particularly needed
because beginners often have no way to get *actual* experience doing
DevOps work, which normally requires working for a reasonably sized
enterprise. Just like I ended up being named the corporate mail
administrator after sheepishly raising my hand when asked in a group if
*anyone* had SMTP mail experience (even though I just maintained my own
mail server at home), so too can such individuals position themselves
with at least initial DevOps experience to open similar opportunities.

* Doris' Sculpture Microcontroller Project: Doris still needs to get
some sculpture articulation working and has all the motors and
electronics for it. I plan on helping her get it all working with C
which will require some good concurrency patterns because of the
coordination between all the stepper motor modes.

Here's a list of all the tech on display in these projects:

Golang • GraphQL • Redis • HTML • CSS • JavaScript • REST • WebSockets •
Cview • Terminal UI • Linux • Bash • "Full-Stack" Web Development • Vue
• Progressive Web Apps • HTTP • YAML • JSON • JAMstack • Networking •
Hosting • Concurrency • Data Structures and Algorithms • Parsing
Patterns • Language Design • Domain Modeling • Docker • Kubernetes •
Devops • Microservices • gRPC • IoT • C • Rust

If that doesn't make me able to command a senior consulting and
development salary in the \$200K I don't know what will. In fact, after
finishing it all and putting it in a nice pretty portfolio package I'm
sure I have enough to go entirely freelance after a few years of
contracting. Of course, I'll be maintaining my highly selective mentored
community during all of it and continuing to create educational content
in video, audio, and written forms --- maybe I'll start my own
publishing model of buying it and getting forever access to the
accompanying knowledge base. If No Starch or whatever publisher doesn't
want to go for that it would not be too hard to self-publish today ---
even with paper versions.

There is something I do really need to learn: Linux distribution package
creation. I made tons of `rpm`s at IBM, but I have no experience
creating the others. It won't be that hard, but I really need to make
that second nature based on the amount of code I'll be putting out.

* Debian (`deb`)
* Ubuntu (`apt`)
* Arch (`yay`)
* RedHat (`rpm`)
* Suse (`zypper`)

Come to think of it. I need to stream how to create packages and polish
up those videos for others to consume as well. That will further two
goals as once.

##  Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 1:18:50PM

Putting together some notes on skills that I know that I need to polish
up specific examples of so I can justify the target contract jobs of
those types. So far looks like the most in-demand Go work (that people
are actually paying for) is in the "full stack" and required back-end
middle-ware and server software:

1. Golang
1. GraphQL (with REST understanding)
1. "Full Stack" Web Development
1. Microservices
1. gRPC
1. Linux

I haven't found any cybersecurity senior software engineering positions
but I'm sure they will eventually show up. If not, maybe I'll just need
to make a flagship product or two.

##  Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 7:58:00AM

I really need to get the base RWX KnowledgeNet template cleaned up since
I keep using it for different knowledge base sites. Hell, I even use it
for this site. Just so much work to do.

I thought of this because the [PEGN
specification](https://gitlab.com/pegn/spec) documentation turns out to
just be yet another one-node knowledge base.

##  Tuesday, September 15, 2020, 5:45:55PM

Once again I'm reminded of just how right I got the whole SkilStak thing
in the beginning by having a centralized multi-user server.

Today the main advantage I was reminded of was that beginners are not
required to learn *anything* but how to connect with `ssh` from their
computer --- no matter what operating system they have --- and then the
basics of bash shell navigation and `vi` editing. 

Most importantly it means no fucking around with Git and GitLab and
GitHub --- or even an email provider for that matter. Just pure terminal
mastery from day one.

I always shy away from mandating terminal skills for web development
only to return to the conclusion that they *are* required so might as
well learn them. Creating a web page and having it *immediately*
viewable without any extra steps is astoundingly effective for
engagement. This is what REPL.it and others claim but they bring a
shoddy web editor dependency that *always* fails. A minimal `ssh`
connection never does.

Backups are trivial to create of users' home directories.

SkilBots are easily deployed and maintained.

Login notices and ASCII art make it fun.

And Git and laptop Linux installation can always be added later. In
fact, I know feel it was a mistake to *start* beginners out with a Linux
laptop as a requirement. They certain learned a lot, but in the end they
have no memory of what they did to set up Linux on their workstations.
Until they care enough to want to do it over and over on old hardware
and the like --- and many may never achieve that level of interest
before leaving --- insisting *everyone* have a form of Linux installed
is simply too much overhead for what it provides *to beginners*.

I do wonder how I could leverage all of this for beginners who are not
in my private mentoring group, for example, those that I have helped
through beginner boosts. The best I can think of is to suggest they use
the PicoCTF stuff and make sure they work on levels while there. The
Carnegie Mellon admin team is top-notch and has a server supporting over
32,000 users.

The only down-side of suggesting PicoCTF server is the doxing of IP
numbers, but that would happen in any situation where a multi-user
system is involved.

The biggest difference this time around is that I refuse to create any
crutches --- including a `save` command of any kind. Anyone on the
system will have to learn `git` properly and all that goes with it.
Instead, I'll create SkilBots (eventually skilz.sh) to help them learn
it.

Another option also occurred to me for multi-user anonymity, I could
create a lightweight server with ssh tunnelling enabled so that the
machine with the users on it would never give up the IP of those
connecting. Hummm.

##  Tuesday, September 15, 2020, 9:55:06AM

It occurred to me while walking through a simulated parsing session in
order to check my PEGN for the AST JSON that it is perfectly possible to
create a tool that *visually* steps through the PEGN *and* the parsed
grammar in two windows showing the process of parsing for educational
and debugging purposes. It's not even that novel. Step-debugging is
already a thing for most languages but it impossible without at least
the possibility of creating an AST that can be traversed. 

There's just way to many cool things you can do once you have a solid
meta-language grammar. 

##  Tuesday, September 15, 2020, 8:07:59AM

Just discovered [magefiles](https://magefile.org/magefiles/), a Golang
makefiles alternative. Very intriguing. I'll have to get good with them.
I am particularly interested in seeing how they can be combined with
CI/CD to produce binaries (like `pegn`) automatically for all platforms.

##  Monday, September 14, 2020, 6:24:13PM

I am back to stuffing all my notes and rants into a single file per
year. It's just easier all around: makes searching a breeze even without
JavaScript enabled, flows well for those reading it, and will be valid
for a good year without breaking incoming links. After a year I kinda
want to break any incoming links since they are likely way out of date. 

As for scrolling and user performance? It's just a bunch of text so it
should be fine plus it makes me more aware when I write too much that
belongs either in a video or separate article.

##  Monday, September 14, 2020, 6:07:50PM

You'd think I would pay more attention to the quality of this site.
Mostly its just a place to brain dump and take notes. I certainly don't
consider it a shining example of my web development prowess. I can't
even show my good stuff because it was all behind Nike and IBM closed
corporate doors, which reminds me.

Yesterday a very experienced peer on Twitch was sharing how much of his
best work will never be seen by anyone. We all got to talking about it
and eventually concluded that those who judge talent by their
GitHub/GitLab profiles are actually pretty damn foolish, like Google for
example. We had some people contacted by Google solely for their
activity on GitHub. 

How fucking stupid is that? 

Any rational recruiter of talent would understand the obvious reality
that the best candidates either cannot or do not post their best work
publicly.

Once again a main-stream belief is obliterated with objectivity and
experience. Sure it is good to clean up your profile and have a
good-to-gig public persona, which I am intent on cleaning up now that
I'm seeking consulting work. But my God, you have to be dumb as a stump
to think that "the best people always have a GitHub profile." It really
just shows how clueless and desperate you are as a company and
recruiter. I'm ashamed I have put so much emphasis on it myself when
mentoring others.

I shared an experience where a very senior executive shared with me in
confidence that they are paying top dollar to some top-secret
machine-learning-driven recruiting filter service that mines the "top
talent" through some sort of complicated heuristic involving just
GitHub. I'm starting to think the reason it was so top-secret is because
if the company name made it out into the public they would be laughed
out of the industry, along with those stupid enough to pay them the
exorbitant amounts they demand.

Nothing will ever beat a personal connection and work evaluation. Git
services are just one part of that.

##  Monday, September 14, 2020, 4:41:56PM

I'm again reminded how superior a simple, multi-user cloud Linux machine
from Digital Ocean is to REPL.it. Once again we had several problems
getting REPL.it to work with any degree of stability. Instead, I'm able
to promote terminal usage and `ssh` skills while sharing a terminal
using `tmux` with those I'm pair programming with and mentoring. Why the
fuck do people have to always overcomplicated things that were never
needed in the first place?

##  Sunday, September 13, 2020, 9:59:24AM

Need to read [Good Enough
Software](https://www.liamwho.com/wp-content/uploads/When-Good-Enough-Software-Is-Best.pdf)
from Ed Yourdon. Someone mentioned it after I went off about being
called a "water boiler" by worst manager of my life at IBM just for
raising critical issues with a bug I had notified people about in email
before. God I'm glad I never work with that asshole again. I had so many
other wonderful managers at IBM. He was *not* one of them.

##  Saturday, September 12, 2020, 10:02:03AM

Decided to go for multi-streaming over Twitch subscriber building and
stick with just coding the software that is needed focusing on learning
through answering questions and demonstrating by example rather than
some particularly video curriculum. Watching the Bill and Ted [WiseCrack
video](https://youtu.be/GFD37HvGx6k) really helped me decide that this
is better overall for everyone's learning. When I write learning
material down it will mostly be references to where to find stuff, like
the phone book or user manual in Bill and Ted's phone booth. "You're on
your own, gentleman."

I'll have to change a few things about streaming:

* Need to be more aware that stuff is being viewed *everywhere*

* Might have to drop Twitch "affiliate" status but who cares I barely
crack 20 viewers at a time when I'm coding but the people who join are
*so* much better making for a much better "studio audience" for the rest
who I won't even see in the chat. You have to be good enough to find
your way onto my Twitch channel to even join.

* Do still need to write a mark-to-youtube tags converter so that I can
just upload the text file and get the same marks in YouTube since for
some reason Twitch does not push them automatically. They are pretty new
YouTube additions, so maybe that is in the works.

##  Saturday, September 12, 2020, 7:59:09AM

I'm reminded of the elegance of the idiomatic Go directory organization
for commands and library packages. Having a `cmd` and then putting
another directory with the name of the command (`pegn`) allows the
inclusion of user-land functions in between, inside the `cmd` directory
itself (`lint.go`). This keeps these files from cluttering up the clean
library directory at the top level containing them both. But even more
valuable is the ability to write tests and benchmarks within the `cmd`
directory for those commands so you don't have to recompile the command
itself every time you want to test and build some sort of additional
tests against the command execution instead of just another function
call. This meshes perfectly with my `cmdtab` organization as
well that promotes putting each subcommand into its own file.

##  Friday, September 11, 2020, 8:37:50AM

After much consideration I'm all but decided to work for the *really*
good contracting company of some kind. Discussing it with great people
doing it professionally on the Twitch stream has really convinced me
that is the thing for someone with my diverse and extensive experience
to do. Hell, I may even be able to use my non-computer language skills.

I'll be in finish up and clean up mode for at least the rest of 2020 as
I wrap up projects, dust off and polish the old ones, and throw out the
really old stuff. I also need to make extensive updates to my LinkedIn
and resume. It is not an exaggeration to say I've been so busy helping
others that my own good-to-gig status has fallen behind some --- not
from lack of experience --- but from lack of updating what are
essentially the personal marketing materials everyone has to maintain to
garner interest from potential compatible employers.

##  Friday, September 11, 2020, 8:35:51AM

Woah, it's September 11th. Just noticed. That certainly brings back
poignant memories.

Found the part where [Bryan Cantrill talks about his obsession with old
languages](https://youtu.be/HgtRAbE1nBM?t=1136).

##  Wednesday, September 9, 2020, 6:31:28AM

Been giving a lot of thought recently to what sort of employment I
really want now that we've decided that I will be seeking work outside
of SkilStak in order to get a home (instead of renting as we have been
doing). As usual, it is hard to isolate what I would like to do from all
that I *could* do --- especially with all my experience at this point. I
find myself following my own council from my mentoring and streaming:

1. "What is your mission in life?
1. "What activities do you enjoy doing daily?"
1. "What careers involve those activities?"
1. "What companies employ for those careers?"
1. "What do these companies specific need to see to trust me?"
1. "What core skills are most important for those careers?"
1. "Which core skills do I know or need to learn?"
1. "What is the best way to learn those skills?"

As I ponder the perfect position I'm allowing myself to consider the
sort-of anti-employment as well. A friend of mine on the Twitch stream
insists that I should freelance. I really want to consider it. But I
need to meet the needs of employment to pass for a mortgage and that is
*incredibly* hard in today's climate without a traditional employer.

### The Perfect Day

I already have the perfect job. I wake up. Make coffee. Blog and code
and live stream while I'm doing it. I have a one-hour educational stream
for everyone on Twitch during that time and later clean up that video
for release onto YouTube. I organize those videos into a living
curriculum covering beginner boost topics as well as highly advanced
software design put into practical terms. My evenings I spend time
directly mentoring and pair programming. At least two hours is spent
outside just walking or slow running and pondering life and projects.
Another 90 minutes I spend doing Yoga. I walk the dog and spend time
with my wife throughout the day. I read in the morning during breakfast
and at night going to bed. And I am paid for all of it either directly
or by patrons who want to see my projects completed.

How do I get someone to pay me to continue to do what I *already* do?

For most the answer is "become a professor" but that path is so fraught
with problems it is unthinkable. It is such a tragedy that education
institutions suck so completely today. 

No, I need something that allows me to be professor-like but receive the
remuneration of a corporate employee. Unfortunately, such companies are
large and usually very evil, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, IBM.
Ironically I find IBM and Microsoft the most palatable of the bunch. IBM
would want to patent everything I have been making lately. Microsoft,
is, well, Microsoft.

### Cybersecurity Engineering

A natural extension of my expertise creating large-scale applications
for systems monitoring and audit compliance is *cybersecurity
engineering*. It involves engineering software (and sometimes hardware)
solutions for both penetration testing and defensive remediation. I can
totally do that shit (and already have).

My Golang mastery really compliments this because Go is *the perfect*
language for such applications for all the obvious reasons that anyone
serious in the field would immediately recognize.

### Perfect Title

Senior Software Architect specializing in SRE and cybersecurity
solutions particularly involving grammar and knowledge design and
development.

##  Monday, September 7, 2020, 10:27:42PM

Noticing during the process of AST and grammar design that a few
questions help to decide how to organize your tree and nest the nodes:

* Would this make sense as an attribute (if attributes were supported)?
If so, it should likely be a subnode of a parent. In fact, anything that
could be represented differently by attributes should all be subnodes of
the same parent node type.

##  Monday, September 7, 2020, 9:36:02AM

I really need to include "The Mormon Fixer in St. Petersburg" as a
chapter in the book I eventually write about being Mormon. The mission
president in St. Petersburg also coincidentally happened to be my
favorite and most influential professor in all my time at Brigham Young
University. He was also quietly *very* liberal. Sometimes I wonder how
he managed to stay Mormon having written the plays he had. I once had to
defend him to his own students who about revolted with he came to the
part of his history course where he presented the African coming-of-age
myths involving 90 foot penises. Oh my god, I'm still laughing about it
now. These little straight-A Mormons couldn't handle the myths of the
world and revolted almost getting him in trouble with administration
(again). He had a long record of rabble-rousing. Maybe that's why he was
my favorite.

##  Friday, August 28, 2020, 7:23:50PM

Oooo, the best WSL2 upgrade guide yet:

* <https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/how-to-install-wsl2-on-windows-10>

I'm seeing people that I mentor be completely unable to run Virtual Box
on Windows presumably because they once used WSL and not their system is
in Hyper-V mode. After the *huge* deal it is to get *any* virtual
machine running on Windows once you have *ever* used WSL or WSL2 it is
pretty much mandatory to use WSL2 from that point on. WSL is
disastrously bad having fundamental bugs as stupid as the `sleep`
command being unsupported. Thank God for that WSL2 upgrade guide. We'll
see how it goes.

##  Thursday, August 27, 2020, 5:19:01PM

Added the following to all invoices going out for the rest of this year.

>   Beginning Jan 1 2021 cost for all blocks will increase from \$800
    per block to \$900. Enrollment is now capped at 25 total members.
    Applications for the waiting list are always available for other
    preferred time slots for current members as well as other potential
    members. Member referral applications are weighted greater than
    others. Thank you for spreading the word all these years.

##  Thursday, August 20, 2020, 7:24:10PM

Once again I'm learning the shortcut usually is the wrong thing to pick.
This time it's WSL --- even WSL2. Let's face it. No one is going to use
either of these in production or even as a professional workstation
either as a software engineer or SRE / DevOps engineer. 

Suffice it to say, I've having everyone revert back to using a virtual
machine approach for all Linux work if they don't have a box to install
it on. The clear advantage is that they can actually take a backup of
their virtual machine and install it anywhere else they might want to
take it. It also means that they are learning *real* skills for testing
out different operating systems.

By the way, PopOS on Virtual Box is a breeze for every beginner I've
helped get started. Once they figure out how to wrangle the screen
resolutions to see everything it works out very nicely.

##  Wednesday, August 19, 2020, 8:41:08PM

Need to add `sitemap.xml` generation to `kn build` since it contains
information similar to what is in the `MANIFEST` file but is recognized
by Google and other search engines.

##  Wednesday, August 19, 2020, 6:43:10PM

I'm chuckling as I go through the latest list of Go resources (books,
videos) out there and every time I want to slap my forehead because the
introduction is so stupid or the title so completely off base it turns
out to be from --- you guessed it --- Packt publishing. Books from the
publisher are so laughably bad. I cannot warn people enough to *never*
give that publisher a single cent of your money. I could write a full
booklet just on all the shit I've found in different Packt publishing
books of all kinds. It's because they flatter lesser developers into
writing a book and flood the market trying to get books out there fast
without any attention to quality.

##  Wednesday, August 19, 2020, 6:26:55PM

I sometimes struggle with reading a particular name of a developer or
technologist turned author or popular library creator or YouTuber who
has really become well known --- even writing forwards for shitty books
--- while knowing deep down how ugly their code really is because I've
actually read it. Even if very few realize just how horrible it is, I
know. I mean sometimes it is absolutely brain-dead stupid bad in some
cases, and yet *everyone* uses it without knowing because they don't
look at it. It's one of those opportunities to channel Rob Pike and just
keep my feelings mostly to myself. (I get the sense that he probably has
done that a lot during his life.) "Don't get mad, Rob, get busy. Don't
get mad. Get busy."

##  Wednesday, August 19, 2020, 5:23:53PM

Here's what I'm adding to all invoices these days:

> Based on the economy and market value, beginning Jan 1, 2021 the cost
a block will increase from \$800 to \$900. (See Codakid
<https://codakid.com/private-online-coding-classes/> offers private
mentoring from college kids using non-professional tools and skills for
a comparison.) I prefer maintaining a lower rate and promoting long-term
relationships but this adjustment is required now that only accept 25
maximum into the community.

I could change \$100/hour if I wanted and easily get 25 people from the
professional ranks, but I'd rather keep the rate down and focus on
long-term relationships with a select few.

## Wednesday, August 19, 2020,  8:32:26AM

Put a few things on my [wishes list](/wish/), mostly stuff that is
obvious to anyone who knows me since I've been working on it for so
long:

1. Better PEG Grammar Notation and Tooling
1. Fast, One-Pass Parsable Markdown (Ezmark)
1. A Decentralized Knowledge Network
1. Reformed Public Education Focused on Learning

Imma keep plugging away.

##  Tuesday, August 18, 2020, 8:22:49PM

I am so tired of `else` statements. In fact, when I see people using
them you can almost be sure they are junior programmers, but not always.
One of the things I love most about Go is that most of the standard
community libraries shun `else` and `else if` like the plague. I can
honestly say that in five years of Go programming I have never needed an
`else if` --- not even once. I have used `else` on *very* rare occasion.

I actually just ran across something similar to this in advice on the
computer science stack exchange: [*Why* do people actually read that
shit?]

```
go if blah { return "something" } else { return "something else" }
```

This is completely stupid and forces the compiler to work unnecessarily
hard. I really love how triggered something as stupidly trivial like
this makes Rob Pike (my hero). Obviously the *right* way to code the
above is like this:

```go
if blah { return "something" } return "something else"
```

Why do so many lesser programmers have an issue with this? It is so much
easier and cleaner and avoids unnecessarily nesting keeping the code
left-justified as much as possible.

The thing that triggers me the most is what the first represents in
terms of code design think. It discounts that there is one best/default
path through the code, one *blue sky* scenario, and all the ifs are
exceptions to that. Here's another comparison in Python:

```python import sys

if len(sys.argv) >= 2 and (sys.argv[1] == "Rob" or sys.argv[1] ==
"Simon"):
   print(f"Woah {sys.argv[1]} you rock.") elif len(sys.argv) >= 2
and (sys.argv[1] == "Dork"): print(f"Um, no need to be rude.") elif
len(sys.argv) >= 2: print(f"Hi {sys.argv[1]}") else: print("Hi there.")
```

And as God intended:

```python import sys

if len(sys.argv) <2: print("Hi there.") exit()

if sys.argv[1] == "Rob" or sys.argv[1] == "Simon": print(f"Woah
{sys.argv[1]} you rock.") exit()

if sys.argv[1] == "Dude": print(f"Um, no need to be rude.") exit()

print(f"Hi {sys.argv[1]}")
```

By the way, the single biggest evidence that the Python language
designers have always had their heads up their asses is the absence of a
`switch` statement after 20+ years of Python (and of course significant
white-space). We got fucking f-strings before we got a switch statement.
The reason is obvious and the same reason multi-line anonymous functions
still don't exist. White-space fucked them. Read the archived emails. It
completely justifies that statement.

##  Tuesday, August 18, 2020, 7:35:30PM

I'm reminded of how successful the challenge pedagogical approach I've
been using and tweaking for years has been received by learners of all
ages. I do wonder if there is any formal academic science on my method.
I can say it has been following the scientific method of discovery and
revision even though any measurable metric has been the success and
deliverables of those learning and not some other formal measure. 

The method goes like this:

1. Identify the core concepts and skills.

1. Create challenges that combine the concepts and skills with very
specific requirements in bullet form that can be tested with or without
automation and understood by someone who is non-technical. They won't
know it, but these are akin to 
[user stories](https://duck.com/lite?kae=t&q=user stories) then will encounter
on the job.

1. Keep the challenges small, memorable, entertaining, and even silly so
they produce immediate dopamine responses promoting learning and
unstressed confidence and can be repeated as with exercises (and not so
much with larger projects, which are an important pairing as well).
Repetition makes humans feel safe which is why we obsess about it in
early childhood.
   
1. Provide helpful hints on how to discover useful information about how
to solve the challenges without any specific source in mind. While a
preferred text is fine, consider listing several sources --- even those
with contradictory approaches --- to promote critical thinking.

1. Outline the challenges in way that *generally* builds and reiterates
previous skills through repetition so the learner gains experience and
strength along the way.

1. Don't teach. Let the learner teach themself. Oversee the learning by
clarifying the requirements and tweak them as needed through a
sustainable challenge versioning system. This way the learner gains the
confidence not only in the material but their autodidactic ability to
successfully research, log, and learn on their own.

1. After a learner completes a challenge test the learner by having them
walk you through how to complete the challenge without looking at their
notes as much as possible. Being able to teach someone else how to do it
is the best measure of mastery. Use the opportunity for discussion and
clarification.

1. Have the learner store the completed challenges and notes they took
along the way to accomplish it in their own personal learning logs and
codebook repos for reference later.

This *challenges and projects* method models learning in the real world
and prioritizes mastery of one's own learning skills during the process.

##  Tuesday, August 18, 2020, 7:30:53PM

Looks like we don't really have to worry until the house sells. So we
are just packing up and getting ready to move quickly when the time
comes. It sucks because it deflates a lot of Doris's creativity and
depresses us because the wonderful yard she has created is just going to
rot but it is better than living every day as if we might have to move
out within the next seven days.

##  Saturday, August 15, 2020, 7:06:24AM

I really like the approach of designing the Golang interfaces before
doing any of the concrete implementation. It is easy to think that its
just a hassle, but it is a good separation of mental concerns phase. 

1. "How am I going to use this thing and what do I need?"
1. "How can I implement it the best?"

This is the kind of thing thing that is simply not taught even in most
computer science departments.

##  Saturday, August 15, 2020, 6:03:24AM

Because of the COVID crisis new financial policies for all real-estate
have been adopted (according to someone representing the mortgage agency
with whom Doris spoke). He described the reason that even though I bring
in from \$70-\$124k over the last eight years have started and run a
successful mentoring business that we cannot even qualify for a \$150k
home loan despite the lowest mortgage rates in history and our average
credit. We can't even rent anything for over \$1000 a month. Why?

Apparently the new policies group the self-employed with the unemployed.
He described how this is likely to result in massive homelessness over
the next year. People are starting to be evicted en masse who can't pay.
In our case I have never once missed a rent payment and am having our
home for the last three years "liquidated" by the land lord despite the
good faith he expressed about our desire for long-term rental. We paid
for the first AC repair, we bought the fridge, and Doris has amazingly
transformed an flooding nightmare of a yard into garden that at least
one stranger has actually stopped and commented on because it is so
beautiful. She put at least \$2000 into that yard. We have always
expressed a desire to eventually buy. The landlord just doesn't care. I
won't judge his needs, but I can still fucking hate him anyway. He's too
cowardly to ever speak with us directly about anything.

So looks like there's only one option left. Move out far enough away
from *everything* that we can be accepted for a \$800/month apartment
--- even though I make way more than that. We'll have to put all of
Doris' art and most of our belongings into storage and live with nothing
but enough room to sleep, eat, and work on a computer or sketch pad.

Another thing that is clear is that I simply cannot ever get a mortgage
without going to work for someone else no matter how much I can prove I
have earned. I suppose I'll be okay. I am certainly employable even
though I've 52. My skills have never been sharper. I do have a lot of
portfolio cleanup and resume updating to do however.

It might sound strange, but I'm entirely calm. I've come to expect
massive surprises like this in my life. But someone things always work
out --- for the better. In this particular case, had I not moved to 100%
remote sessions and got them really working well, had this surprise came
even one year ago, I would be facing quite a bit of challenge because I
would likely be immediately unemployed. COVID might have changed the
lending policies, but it has made everyone much better with remote work
and no one does remote work better than me. I've been doing it since the
year 1998.

My biggest regret is that Doris' hopes and dreams have taken a *huge*
hit. There are lots of ways for her to do art and connect with the
community, but her studio is gone, for now. 

On the bright side we might finally actually get some kind of insurance
through an employer, because having your employer responsible for your
physical health and that of your family just makes so much sense.

"What's this? You want to leave us and work on your own perhaps as a
competitor? Good luck finding a doctor for you and your family."

It's straight-up illegal, a horrible conflict of interest. I'm sure
nothing will ever go wrong with *that* idea. 

I laugh because I'd cry otherwise. America is *so* completely fucked up.
So many people in America just need to fucking die so that young people
who have been screwed by them for the last 20 years can do something
about it. They are certainly fed up.

##  Thursday, August 13, 2020, 5:45:14PM

Today I ran/shuffled 17.4 miles in 5 hours and 20 minutes --- a 18
minute/mile pace --- but that's running 90 minutes and taking a 10
minute yoga break and then doing another one. My actual running pace
hovers around 15 min/mile. I didn't even feel nearly as uncomfortable as
on other shorter runs. I think the secret was actually the shuffle
keeping my blood flowing without hitting lactate thresholds, and of
course the yoga to do what yoga does.

The shuffle is *so* much easier on the feet when running in my barefoot
Merrill's with Vibram souls. Now that I know Cliff dominated with it I
care not that I look like an old guy who needs to use the bathroom. My
feet are so happy. Have I mentioned that my feet are getting fucking
buff! It's hilarious. They are actually quite a bit bigger.

As you can imagine, the rest of me is *quite* a bit slighter. My belly
is almost completely gone. It's a great feeling even though it has taken
more work to get back in shape than I have ever faced in my life. I
can't believe I *ever* stopped being Team Endorphin Rob. I've *always*
been an endurance athlete even during the more stressful of times.
*NEVER* again! Only scrawny, vegetarian "soy boy", Patagonia,
yoga/endurance dude for the rest of my days.

All this has had one overall significant affect. I am just so fucking
happy all the time --- no matter what hits us, like being kicked out of
our apartment after finally personally investing thousands into the
yard. Some how I know everything will turn out okay.

##  Tuesday, August 11, 2020, 6:08:34PM

Need to incorporate the Anki functionality into the K|N (knowledge net)
tool --- especially the reminders to study certain things.

##  Monday, August 10, 2020, 7:23:13PM

<https://regex101.com/> looks like a great regular expression learning
resource.

##  Monday, August 10, 2020, 4:53:18PM

Going to have to raise the price of a block from \$800 to \$900 in
January. My new curriculum will be done by then, plus the economy has
changed a lot and the demand for online education has really increased.
It puts the cost for a session at \$56.25. Considering that a 30 minute
private piano lesson or voice session is \$30 I'm still *well* within
the affordable range --- for those who *value* strong technical skills.


##  Saturday, August 8, 2020, 7:49:11AM

Even if PEGN doesn't grow into anything anyone else would ever use it
has already helped me immensely. Here's an example of how I can simply
and easily incorporate it into *any* communication about the syntax of a
thing:

```go
// Parse returns a top-level pegn.Node (Grammar,1) with four attributes.
// The first is the universal language identifier (ULI or UniLangID) in
// all caps "PEGN". The second, third, and fourth attributes are the 
// semantic major, minor, and patch version numbers. No support for 
// semantic version extensions is supported or planned. The ULI,
// however, may contain an extension indicated by a dash (-) followed
// by any alphanumeric ASCII characters.
// 
//   UniLangID <- upper{2,12} (DASH alphanum{1,20})?
func Parse(p pegn.Parser) (pegn.Node, error) {
   // TODO return nil, nil
}
```

My addition of classes (`upper`, `alphanum`), tokens (`DASH`), and
limits (`{2,12}`, `{1,20}`) allows me to quickly and easily communicate
the *exact* specification without the complications of something like
BNF notation. PEGN is simply the most readable technical specification
language I've ever encountered, even if I did take Bryan's idea and ABNF
and just combined the best of them together. But synthesis is often the
essence of innovation.

I've been watching Voyager and have been on the episodes containing
Leonardo Da Vinci and I find myself relating to his frustration with
"idiotas" who see only a person falling into the river trying to fly and
not the thoughtful, courageous, scientifically creative "maestro" at
work. Am I "maestro"? Hardly like he must have been. But I relate to his
frustrations which are not dissimilar to Babbage's during his life.
Reading *The Innovators* has also put me into a perpetual imaginative
state where I am regularly in the presence of *true* greatness and
innovation even if I struggle to produce my own. The world is full of
absolutely amazing human beings who are almost always impossible to
find. They are too busy getting shit done. I just need to mentally place
myself in their company

I also must avoid those who think playing a video game 10 hours a day is
any way to expend the precious time granted to them. I love video games
as a art form, but you don't see me spending 10 hours a day fawning over
any art. There is art appreciation and then there is self-distraction
and addiction. With so many other opportunities to learn, grow, and
connect why waste time on such things?

The secret (for me) is to learn to "cancel" the rest who insist on such
monumentally tragic wastes of time, who throw their fucking lives away
for whatever reason, no matter how justified. I want nothing to do with
them. They frustrate and trigger me. This is why when I start to sense
that a person I mentor is gravitating toward just wanting to make and
play games all day I tend to find an excuse to get rid of them
relatively quickly unless they are young and don't know better.

##  Friday, August 7, 2020, 12:24:18PM

[49:50 Antiquity Loop (5 miles)]{.run}

All the long walks and runs over the last three months have really
helped out. I'm back to 10 minute/mile pace (6mph) in my flats. Wonder
what my PR would be in some good shoes that are broken in.


Felt *so* amazing today. We'll see how recovery goes, but I'm convinced
that study was right, the best combination for overall health is 3-4
runs like this one or faster combined with every other day of recovery
walking and minimal strength and yoga.

##  Thursday, August 6, 2020, 8:14:33PM

After not more than three years in our current rental our landlord ---
who assured us that things would be fine when we moved in --- is kicking
us out to "liquidate" this "asset". Fucking asshole.

We moved here from SkilStak before and had held in-person sessions until
January when I went to fully remote. Thank God I did. Had I not I would
not be looking at full unemployment and the loss of most of the
remaining business I have maintained within about a month when we have
to leave to a location that will *not* be easily accessible to anyone
currently attending remotely.

In other words, as usual, the Universe has our backs. I've been do
nothing but what I *know* is the best use of my time and energy for this
shitty world and somehow I have avoided major catastrophes. In this
particular case, it is as if I was gently nudged in the right direction
and always prepared for what was about to come around the corner. I even
started streaming and working on the remote session workstation stuff
before any of the Covid stuff hit. I've even been focusing intensely on
getting my cardio health back in line over the last three months so I am
in great shape to pull of yet another move.

I have no doubt whatever is coming next is going to be *better* than
what we have now. Karma is real.

##  Thursday, August 6, 2020, 8:08:42PM

Doing the *Empire* levels of PicoCTF 2019 and realizing just how much I
need to add SQL training to all my would-be pentesters. SQL is essential
for most development still these days (despite my love of JAMstack and
YAML for all things small and flat).

Once again I have motivation to finish everything in the critical path
leading up to being able to make *wicked cool* and fast to write
challenges and books on the RWX Knowledge Net:

1. PEGN (`pegn`)
1. PEGN Language Server Protocol Implementation
1. `vim-pegn`
1. Ezmark
1. K|N
1. RWX.GG

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 7:50:03PM

WSL
[sucks](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1230252/sleep-doesnt-work-on-ubuntu-20-04-wsl)
(and possibly 2 as well). Just wasted a bunch of time debugging a simple
loop with a sleep in it only to find that it is because WSL is fucking
trash. Now I have to port all my people back over to running PopOS in a
virtual machine which is what I started out doing but was tempted by the
ease of install for the WSL stuff.

I am *so* tired of being surprised by broken shit that should obviously
work like this. I will *never* recommend WSL to a beginner ever again!

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 5:11:00PM

I could not be more pleased that my `Filter(r rune) bool` type from PEGN
is compatible directly with the entire `unicode` package from Go. This
means that anyone can use any of the comprehensive library of functions
as a `Filter` passed to the `Consume(f Filter)` method of the
`pegn.Parser` interface. I love it when a good plan works out.

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 4:54:19PM

I take that back. The Apache 2 license must be included as well for
those times when I want to promote adoption by the most legally paranoid
organizations. It placates their worries much better than The Unlicense,
which I'll use for informal things. So that means:

1. The Unlicense (permissive, informal)
1. Apache 2.0 (permissive, formal)
1. GPLv2 (non-permissive, formal)

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 4:39:42PM

I've decided there are only two software licenses I care to ever use for
software:

1. The Unlicense (permissive)
2. GPLv2 (non-permissive)

I figure people are going to do whatever they want anyway if you make
your source code public, so putting *any* license on it is just a
formality for the few times when someone will actually care about it.
Ask any developer in China what they thing about the GPL? Nevermind, you
can figure that one out and no one will even answer that question
anyway, they are too busy stealing all our best software and making
proprietary changes to release products that destroy ours at market.
Licensing, like so many things, is something they just laugh at in our
faces, like that one scene from Mr. Robot.

But it's not just China. Apple regularly steams ideas and stuff from
open source projects without letting anyone know. The reader they
implemented in Safari destroyed one such project. And when is the last
time you saw *any* attribution in any Apple screen.

In other words, none of it matters as much as I (and others) worry about
it. If you *want* people to give back their changes to in in GPLv2.
Otherwise, might as well just make it Public Domain. MIT and BSD will
just let them compile it in a way that no one can actually see that they
are in violation so we could *rarely* catch them anyway.

When I want permissive, I want it to be *really* permissive. When I want
to ask people to share their changes (and that's all) GPLv2 is really
the only license in town for me.

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 4:09:42PM

I'm seriously thinking of writing (another) book, *Learning to Program
in Go as a First Language*. It would be fun and easy and take the same
tone as *Eloquent JavaScript*. It would be entirely based on my
challenges approach and mix in the essential concepts and terminology as
it comes up. That way there is always something going on to stay
engaged. Having recently really looked hard at Rust and also been doing
a lot with Go for PEGN I really feel like Go will be the *true* dominant
language of our time clearly taking the place of Python, Node, Java, and
much of C++ and some C.

I really believe learning to code *first* in Go would put the learner
light-years ahead of others by introducing types, when to make them
strict and when not, why to think in terms of what a thing can do
(interfaces) as its type rather than its underlying structure, and to
think internationally from the start in Unicode runes rather than just
bytes. Plus understanding the concurrency model (goroutines and
messages) doubles as preparation for how the Linux operating system
works.

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 4:01:21PM

Skype has blown Discord away in professionalism, features, and
stability. I'm actively moving all SkilStak operations *off* of Discord
in any way. I will maintain the community there for RWX.GG but that is
it. Discord is an absolute disaster of a company and product. I once
admired their company spirit and such, but after multiple, objective
indications of how stupid their company is I have to stop. Their
engineer team is full of absolute buffoons with almost zero experience
who chose to blog about just how stupid and inexperienced they are
regarding their idiotic choice to pick Go in the first place and then
bash on it while deciding to switch to Rust, and then later chase
Erlang. I don't want any of my people anywhere near that catastrophe of
a company.

##  Wednesday, August 5, 2020, 8:31:53AM

Been reading a lot about running for those over 50 lately. A lot of
great insights from other runners [in the comments of this
page](https://trainright.com/tips-for-aging-runner-ultramarathoner-50-60-70/).
Another
[study](https://www.active.com/health/articles/why-too-much-running-is-bad-for-your-health)
that tracked 52,000 people over 30 years has some *very* interesting
results:

> However, the health benefits of exercise seemed to diminish among
> people who ran more than 20 miles a week, more than six days a week,
> or faster than eight miles an hour. **The sweet spot appears to be
> five to 19 miles per week at a pace of six to seven miles per hour,
> spread throughout three or four sessions per week.** Runners who
> followed these guidelines reaped the greatest health benefits: their
> risk of death dropped by 25 percent, according to results published in
> the journal Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

That worried me a bit at first since I've been doing 10-13 miles a day
for the last few months. Then I read this:

> If you want to work out longer than 60 minutes a day: After the first
> 45 to 60 minutes of vigorous exercise, switch it up by doing yoga,
> strength training, or lighter activity like swimming--and don't race.
>
> Stick to walking or Yoga for one of your regular workouts for one
> extra day each week.

In other words, while trying to lose weight and wanting to keep more
active during the day --- without going overboard --- walking, strength
training, and yoga (my favorites combined with paddle boarding and
adventure cycling) are the key. 

My conclusion is to keep up the four hours a day of >55% heart rate
activity everyday and for three days (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) go
faster for 60 straight minutes after warming up with a walk for about 15
minutes first. (My walking pace is 16 minutes per mile.) 

I'll be cutting my walks down to two hours (about 7.5 miles) and
sticking to shaded trails so that I don't have to pack as much water
making logistics easier. Then I'll hydrate when I return and immediately
do 60 minutes hour of Yoga, a variation on Ashtanga including "yoga pull
ups" and 12 minutes of svasana (laying on your back). Then I'll do my
regular 10 minutes of trataka (candle gazing meditation) with tones.

One of those days a week I'll add 60 minutes of 8-10 minutes per mile
running and work up to three of those "hard" days a week. These are the
"workout" days. The rest are just normal, every day life as usual.

My life as a developer living and working from home is *very* sedentary.
This is why I think three hours of walking or low effort cardio is no
where *near* over-training. It's just normal human activity that my body
is *expecting* me to do daily. Keeping the pace slow means that I can
get a recording device and take notes, write, and such while on my
two-hour daily walk/hikes.

##  Monday, August 3, 2020, 12:02:58PM

Need to consider how to add bounds limits to the `pegn.Parser` such that
when developers initialize the parser they can set specific sizes for
things overall as well as any semantic size and length limitations which
can be specified in PEGN which the addition of `MinMax` and `Count`.

##  Monday, August 3, 2020, 8:40:04AM

I've revised the PEGN specification to divide the `Definition`
non-terminal into `TokenDef`, `ClassDef`, `ParseDef`. This semantic
distinction will allow better code generation later. For example,
`TokenDef` can be rendered as a single file of constants, both single
runes and simple strings (like `<-` for example). `ClassDef` can be
rendered at simple boolean `Is*` functions. And the remaining `ParseDef`
definitions will be rendered as files each lower-cased and containing
only a single `Parse(p Parser) (Node, error)` function. The modularity
should be expanding and supporting grammars rather easy and allow more
precise re-rendering when the PEGN specification changes.

My biggest concern is separating out the convenience definitions from
the *actual semantic* Nodes that one wants in an AST. For example,
`Spacing` which is `(BlankLine / Comment)*`. Do I really want a
`Spacing` node with an identifier? Probably not. I *do* want the
`BlankLine` and `Comment` Nodes in the AST because they are significant
and could be used to re-render the code using a format tool, etc. I
don't really need the `Spacing` Node type. It is just a convenience to
make the grammar more readable.

On the other hand, when thinking about other possible code renders the
option of having more granularity in an event-based parser/handler is
actually a good thing. For example, say I want to handle `EndSpacing()`
for anything or more specifically `EndComment()`. I have the option. In
fact, the cost of a containing convenience Node like `Spacing` really is
not that bad since it is just 4-6 characters defining the containing
Node and its type.

So I think I just won't worry about it. If it is in the PEGN, it should
always be in the AST.

##  Friday, July 31, 2020, 8:34:55PM

Had to install Skype as a backup because Discord is so horribly bad. The
Discord technical team is rather unprofessional on so many levels. Every
time I experience one of their broken live upgrades I wince. I've
working in far to formal and fault-intolerant environments before where
people die if shit doesn't work. Discord doesn't give a fuck, clearly.

##  Friday, July 31, 2020, 6:39:19PM

Having a spectacular week. I came across [Cliff
Young](https://youtu.be/R276S1KMgQ0). I guess he's the reminder that I
needed that humans are *incredible* beings and have enormous potential
that is practically imperceptible in today's day-to-day living. I've
been fighting the "humans are shits" feeling for a while and the
Universe brought Cliff into my path for a reason. I don't have to feel
bad that I'm doing the "marathon shuffle" when I hike/walk/run or even
that I might feel inclined someday to actually wear "gum boots" someday
on a run --- and you *know* I am gonna do it.

Today while on a particularly glorious section of wooded trail the
noon-day light broke through and illuminated the trail in such
spectacular fashion that I actually broke down and cried quite a lot.
The leaves where back-lit and illuminated, the smells of the forest
overwhelmingly fragrant. Critters all around me scurried and birds sang.
As I have frequently experience (and often forgotten) I became one with
my surroundings. I feels almost as if I'm *actually* one with everything
around me. I sometimes imagine the atoms of my body just releasing the
forces that bind them together and being absorbed.

These days I'm run/walking 13 miles a day --- every day. My life has
been filled with periods of time when I was connected with the outdoors
and when I was not. Every time I have lost that connection my life has
failed in some way. I feel outstanding exhilaration every day and a
desire to make every indoor hour count even more so that I can get back
outside. I fit into all my Patagonia gear again so looks like the Winter
won't hold me off. Four hours a day outside, every single day, that is
one very real secret to happiness.

##  Tuesday, July 28, 2020, 4:53:42PM

Added detection of `/tmp/commitmsg` to [my `save` command](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/save) Sure makes for more useful messages. I have come a long way from doing `WIP` messages
even for notes log entries. Still most of my notes will just be generic
commit messages, but not the others.

##  Tuesday, July 28, 2020, 8:42:33AM

There's a pattern with me. Once I get outside *a lot* and establish the
habit of being outside for more than two hours a day I just don't want
to go back to doing *anything* inside. I have to force myself to code at
all. It becomes a chore. That's how I know that deep down I'm actually
*not* a techie at my core. I'm more of a writer, explorer, and traveller
than anything. 

That also explains my obsession with technologies that enable the
exchange of knowledge and storied, that help others become their own
gurus so they can learn on their own terms. The idea of creating (or at
this point even playing) a video game absolutely sickens me. Given the
obsession I had with Witcher 3 and, for a while, with Overwatch, that is
really telling. It shows me that our brain chemistries are more in
control of us than most of us would care to admit. Right now my brain is
literally addicted to the endorphin and dopamine high from trekking 10
miles a day as fast as I can, of taking a road less travelled on
occasion just to see where it leads. Of getting lost and being okay with
it as I find my way back home.

It's no surprise that my body has transformed, almost completely. I'm
not a tan/sunburned, long bearded, Patagonia-wearing dude who quietly
nods and smiles to passing travelers on the path, all facing their own
individual struggles, all oblivious to the pointless traffic and
pollution around them. I've been reminded I've always been a member of a
different tribe, one with members who wonder silly things like, "can I
fit my hammock in my pack and take a nap between two-hour hikes?"

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 7:48:36PM

Just hearing about the "bullet" method for note taking. Seems
interesting but I have a feeling that digitally thing form of logging
might be better for me so long as I have a way to search them.

I am partial simply to use the Pandoc Markdown div notation for this
stuff:

```
::: Reminder
Need to walk the dog.
:::
```

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 7:44:44PM

Need to look into a book recommended from a friend called [Make It
Stick](https://www.amazon.com/Make-Stick-Science-Successful-Learning/dp/0674729013).
Wondering if it is new or just rehashing the old stuff we already know.

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 7:17:11PM

Need to put an article together that has all the great, free code
sharing sites out there. Here's the best so far:

* <https://ix.io>
* <https://codeshare.io>
* <https://repl.it>

Those are my favorites --- especially `ix.io` which I can use from
within a `vi` session to send and receive specific lines and sections.

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 7:08:30PM

Found out today that <https://codio.com> is on some Python version
previous to Python 3.6 because someone I'm helping cannot use f-strings.
This is the *standard* used by his university that costs him \$960 per
course. I'm fucking out of my find with how stupid that is.

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 4:22:41PM

Had a good reminder today how important it is to keep the Go interfaces
in the *top* level of the package and the mostly private
*implementation* of those interfaces in their own second-level
subdirectories (subpackages). It makes the names work out perfectly.
Instead of ending up with a `parser.Parser` and `node.Node` you get
`pegn.Parser` and `pegn.Node`. This also allows the removal of the
redundant name in the constructors so instead of `parser.NewParser()`
and `node.NewNode()` you get `parser.New()` and `node.New()`.

To any old-school Java or C++ class-based OOP programmers who might be
reading this. Creating the top-level interfaces of the package feels
like writing the top of a class, and coding the specifics of the
subpackage subdirectory implementation files feels like the body and
methods of a class.

I have coded other Go stuff like this before, but this `pegn` package
really serves to illustrate how powerful the approach of public
interfaces and a private implementation can be in Go when combined. It
is definitely *not* the intuitive approach that I see beginners use, but
it is very clearly the most idiomatic Go design. I will be so glad to
use `pegn`, `ezmark`, `dtime`, `cmdtab` and other packages to
demonstrate this. I'm very motivated to get this really polished to show
how objectively simpler and superior Go coding is to Rust.

##  Monday, July 27, 2020, 9:26:35AM

The demand for PEGN parsing solutions will only increase as the tech
world continues to simplify the human-computer interface with text and
conversational interface layers. The demand for highly efficient and
sophisticated language grammars will also increase as will the demand
for software developers who understand them and can create them
properly. 

The `pegn` package I've been building falls directly into that space
seeking to meet the needs of developers who need to implement
domain-specific languages quickly and easily. There's no need for ever
developer to create a new PEG parser every time. There's not even a need
to redefine the most common tokens and classes used in any DSL. They are
all included in PEGN and the `pegn` implementations.

Very few people on planet Earth will even understand enough to grasp the
impact of something like this. But to those who do, this will be very
clear and appreciated. I just wish I could find more of such people.

##  Sunday, July 26, 2020, 5:03:34PM

Looking over plans for the rest of the year and comparing my offerings
with those of others and it is clear I need to make a few changes.
Here's the summary after talking it over with Doris:

1. Complete and organize opensource projects (PEGN, Ezmark, `kn`,
RWX.GG, README.World) enough for allow others to contribute and put into
their own portfolios. Recruit help.

1. Simultaneously continue working on porting the original Python
SkilStak challenge set to language-agnostic challenges.

1. Identify language-specific challenges and organize them as well.
Create a challenge summary page for each language that embeds the
language-agnostic ones.

1. Create *Polyglot Programming* Twitch/YouTube video walkthroughs of
the challenges done in simultaneously in Bash, JavaScript, Python, and
Go.

1. Update the SkilStak curriculum to take into account the additions.

1. Formalize the SkilStak waiting list.

1. Raise SkilStak rates minimally after curriculum updates are in place
mostly due to limit of 25 community members maximum.

##  Saturday, July 25, 2020, 9:29:44PM

TIL that <https://cypress.io> is a thing for testing JavaScript. Looks
promising. Need to take a look at it.

##  Saturday, July 25, 2020, 3:51:38PM

Recently I was reminded how easy it can be to accidentally defeat the
entire point of using sustainable interfaces instead of structs ---
especially if you are creating an internal struct that implements the
interface as the same time that you are designing the interface.

Here's a method I had initially created correctly, but didn't catch the
very obvious mistake until later.

```go
func (n *node) AppendChild(c Node) {
   if n.c1 == nil {
      c.(*node).mum = n  // DOH!
      n.c1 = c
      n.cN = c
      return
   }
   n.cN.AppendAfterSelf(c)
}
```

Casting the incoming `Node` `c` into a `*node` is a whopping error
because it forces all `Nodes` past to it to *also* be `*node*` pointers.
But that goes against the entire point of interfaces. I should be able
to pass *anything that fulfills the `Node` interface* and obviously
something else might be different.

Here's how I corrected it to work with *any* Node, not just my own
specific implementation:

```go
func (n *node) AppendChild(c Node) { 
   if n.c1 == nil {
      c.SetParent(n)
      n.SetFirstChild(c) 
      n.SetLastChild(c) 
      return
   }
   n.cN.AppendAfterSelf(c)
}
```

##  Friday, July 24, 2020, 8:18:26PM

Turns out it is *way* too verbose. To me the tests are the best way for
someone to get acquainted with your code base. If you mess that up with
something like following boilerplate created with `gotests` you lose the
value of communicating what your package is about and how it works. In
fact, this just makes me want to use `Example*` more than `Test*` even
more. Everything becomes a part of the documentation and you are writing
it from the perspective of someone using it.

##  Friday, July 24, 2020, 7:30:01PM

Looks like exists already! I am so seriously blown away by this and it
has been around for a very long time. It even has test template support
with testify templates as an option.

```
go get -u github.com/cweill/gotests/...
go --all -w node.go
```

##  Friday, July 24, 2020, 7:24:21PM

It occurred to me that creating a tool to stub test cases would be
relatively easy just by walking the Go AST and matching the lowercase
file name with the specific interface or struct (assuming you use that
convention and they match).

##  Friday, July 24, 2020, 6:41:57PM

Realized there is real value in having *two* scripts directories in your
path, one for the good stuff in dotfiles that you can show off publicly
to others and another for all the quick and dirty shit that needs to me
made into something better eventually. Here's what they look like in
mine:

```sh
export PATH=\ SCRIPTS:\ SCRIPT_PRIV:\ ...
```

(Of course there is a lot more in that path after that.)

##  Friday, July 24, 2020, 6:27:50PM

I really need to find or make a tool that creates test case boilerplate
code for everything in a matching `_test.go` file.

After make a `note` command for like the 10th time I am realizing how
much I really need to fucking finish `kn`. I would use it ever five
minutes. It *must* be made!

##  Thursday, July 23, 2020, 4:58:59PM

I'm having a *really* hard time with the overwhelming level of laziness
in the mainstream population --- particularly among the highly gifted
who could be doing *so* much more for the world. Don't know why it's
hitting me so hard today. People constantly complain about now having
enough time for this or that when in fact that have *gobs* of time that
they are *choosing* to waste on absolutely stupid shit. At least I will
be able to eventually die with a clean conscious that I worked my
fucking ass off to make the world --- and everyone's lives in it ---
just a little bit better.

##  Tuesday, July 21, 2020, 3:47:47PM

TIL that Golang used reflection to implement the "built in"
unmarshalling. That means no one should ever use it of they actually
care about the performance of their JSON parsing. Instead, I will
*always* implement `UnmarshalJSON` myself to ensure stuff gets where it
needs to be as fast as possible *without reflection*. Seriously,
reflection is pretty damn close to the devil.

##  Monday, July 20, 2020, 8:37:16AM

As I wrap up the [`PEGn.pegn`
spec](https://gitlab.com/rwx.gg/pegn/spec/-/blob/master/PEGn.pegn) I
realized how much incredible value this has for helping people learn
different language syntaxes. The power comes from a drop-dead simple
representation of a language syntax that most people can understand
simply by looking at it with no further explanation. By having people
learn language syntax by studying a PEGn grammar they can immediately
apply their own internal syntax checkers when writing one.

This doesn't even touch how easy it is to excite someone into writing
their own language once they see how easy PEG grammars are to write. The
processing of logic in PEG makes for good logical ("computational")
thinking as well.

One of my new goals for the community is to have people write PEGn
grammars for all the major languages. Having a database of PEGn files
for all languages is *such* a huge win in terms of understanding
different languages and being able to create your own.

##  Sunday, July 19, 2020, 6:17:42PM

Getting the questions about why I'm not writing a book. I get that one a
lot. The simple answer is that books take too much time and knowledge
bases are more effective *if I can ever get them updated enough*. The
challenge is getting your knowledge into others view. But the plan for
Knowledge Net sharing and subs will cover that. I just have to fucking
finish it!

##  Sunday, July 19, 2020, 9:34:11AM

PEGn is *really* grabbing my attention. It's becoming that perfect thing
between ABNF, the original PEG (which has several substantial flaws in
the "example" syntax), and the myriad PEG parsing engines out there ---
all of which suck at creating *readable* grammars. PEGn will boast the
following when complete:

* Self-specifying PEGn grammar
* Most readable grammar specs on the planet
* Nearly identical semantics to original PEG "example"
* Semantic capitalization identifier naming conventions
* Full set of reserved classes and tokens
* Zero ambiguity semantics
* Full Unicode support

And eventually I plan on building the following tools for it as well:

* `pegn` - linter, validator, and code generator
* `vim-pegn` - vim plugin with PLS language server support

My code generator won't clutter up the grammar itself with inline code
(as cool as that is). Instead it will allow *granular* creation of the
different language renderings. This is substantially better than
*anything* else out there right now because they are all ***language
specific*** which destroys the usefulness and ubiquity of the grammar
itself. No, instead `pegn` will support *modular* code generation
support allowing different implementations of a rendered parsing even in
the same language. For example, say you want your grammar generated in
interface-centric Go versus struct-centric. Or say you want to generate
code that generates an AST, or other code that is focused entirely on
handling parse events. There are so many different ways to implement a
parser for different needs. The one flaw that *every* PEG-to-code
generator has right now is the inability to adapt to these needs and the
fucking gawd-awful grammar specification files that result.

##  Sunday, July 19, 2020, 7:39:00AM

Been really conflicted about when to use Go `interfaces` and when to use
`structs`. I tend to be a one thing or the other kind of guy. Using
`interface` gets you immense flexibility while `structs` work better
with marshaling and require *far* less code. I've decide to follow
Goldmarks' lead and create both my parsers leaning on `interfaces` more
even if that means a few accessors and mutators. I am probably too
abused by Java to look at them rationally. They probably do have good
use sometimes.

##  Saturday, July 18, 2020, 1:43:31PM

Got `tinout` moved over to <https://gitlab.com/rwx.gg/tinout> and
push-mirroring to GitHub. I've decided *nothing* goes into rwx.gg that
isn't *at least* version 1.0 or higher. I want to have someplace where
people can go and be reasonably sure that stuff will usable.

##  Saturday, July 18, 2020, 11:56:35AM

Having writer's remorse over writing that slam on tags and structs. As
usual the truth is in between them. In fact, I *love*
`github.com/ghodss/yaml` (and so does the Docker project) for parsing
YAML into structs with the least amount of hassle --- when structs make
sense.

I've been really second guessing my decision to move to interfaces for
all the `knowledge` package stuff. After all these things *are* just
static data. I'll move to struct approach for the AST from Ezmark before
I make a final decision on the `kn` stuff.

##  Saturday, July 18, 2020, 11:15:32AM

After facing the quirks of JSON and YAML tagging yet again I went ahead
and wrote [Golang YAML/JSON Tags Actually Suck](/golang-tags-suck/).

##  Friday, July 17, 2020, 6:51:31PM

Cloudflare just went down reportedly because of a "bad router rule" in a
server in Atlanta taking out 1.1.1.1. The number of people depending on
that central DNS provider is proof of how stupid people are. The entire
point of DNS was to allow *distributed* DNS providers rather than have
everyone depend on a service. It really revealed how stupid some
companies are. GitLab was one of them. After seriously fighting with
GitLab's brain-dead flavored Markdown --- despite their claim to be
moving to CommonMark --- I've gathering up reasons to give GitHub
another look. But, honestly, I'm kinda tired of depending on *any*
centralized service at all at this point.

##  Friday, July 17, 2020, 8:13:13AM

Another amazing and unexpected advantage of writing in PEG is that you
can specify ordered priority such that things that are *more likely* to
occur in a language are examined first. This has never been something
any specification language has allowed an author to communicate. It also
brings forward some of the difficulties when a syntax would be easier to
parse *without* the preferred position when examining the input. For
example, `Text` is far more frequent than `Tex`. But checking for `Tex`
lexically is easier because you look for `$` and know you have it right
away instead of maintaining the priority and checking that `$` is *not*
present so that you can continue with the `Text` parsing. This does
cause a bit of redundancy in the parsing engine because to check for
`Text` I have to rule out `$` and then later have to check for `$` to
make sure I have a `Tex` inline. The cost is easily worth it, though,
given all of the code that would have to be evaluated otherwise leaving
`Text` as the plain option at the end of the list.

##  Friday, July 17, 2020, 7:52:01AM

I cannot overstate how amazing PEG positive and negative lookahead and
lookbehind are for specifying language grammars. It allows
specifications to directly communicate the code that needs to be written
including some idea of how much memory will be needed for any lookahead
specified by the grammar as well as how many previous states will need
to be saved (memoized) to assert any look behind.

This has been particularly useful when dealing with sets that can
include other sets except for one specific thing. This is impossible to
capture in EBNF or ABNF and requires resorting to "rhetorical"
specification syntax. 

Here's an example: Markdown *inlines*. Often one inline can contain most
of the others. In PEG you simple have to do a negative of the inlines
another inline cannot contain (rather than explicitly rewriting every
one of them).

```pegn 
Inline <- Text / Quote / Emph / Link / Pre Quote  <- (!Quote Inline)+
```

##  Thursday, July 16, 2020, 7:53:08PM

Yet another reason not to use Zsh(it). It doesn't even have [variable
name references](https://rwx.gg/advice/dont/zsh/). Zsh is such a script
kiddy toy, just so much evidence of that now. I'm beyond trying to
listen people convince me otherwise. "Run along. I have work to do."

##  Thursday, July 16, 2020, 4:44:12PM

Finally got at least all the main pages on [rwx.gg](https://rwx.gg)
working again and put the old `kn` shell script back in play. It is so
great for auditing.

##  Thursday, July 16, 2020, 8:19:17AM

Playing around with a new morning routine. Been up since 6am today,
yesterday 5:30. I have been naturally waking up earlier as I just write
off the end of the day and go to bed around 10:30. They say you need
less sleep as you age, but I don't buy into that idea --- especially if
you are still regularly exercising. I've been running for an hour or
more every day now for over a month. It's been absolute bliss. I love
yoga, but running on a good trail has always centered me mentally as
much or more. I'm still planning on daily strenuous yoga asana again
after I get my base health back.

Here's my daily schedule lately:

|Hour|Activity|
|-|-|
|6:30a|Up / Resting Heart Rate / Coffee & Walnuts / |Code / Crap |
|7|*Eat* (Oatmeal, Protein, Coconut Oil, Coffee)|
|8|Code / Write / Think|
|9|Run|
|10|*Eat* (Protein and Avacado Toast or Pickle, |Tomato Sandwich)|
|10:30|Stream / Teach|
|11|Stream / Teach|
|12p|Stream / |Teach|
|1|*Eat* / Relax / Coffee|
|2|Code / Write (Live)|
|3|Code / Write |(Live)|
|4|*Eat* / Mentor|
|5|Mentor|
|6|Mentor|
|7|*Eat* / Mentor|
|8|Mentor|
|9|Walk Dog|
|10|*Eat* / Relax|
|11:00|Sleep|

My best brain power of the day is --- without a doubt --- in the
morning. It is also when it is the most peaceful around here.

I'm going to do a better job writing this personal stuff down in case it
might help other people heading into old age watching their bodies freak
out in ways they could not have anticipated. Mine happens to be chronic
inflammation for reasons I cannot explain. Here's how I've started to
beat it:

1. Slow-paced running about an hour a day away from people
1. Completely eliminating any refined sugar or processed food
1. Dropping meat and carb-dense food from diet
1. Eating rather small portions of things more often
1. Setting an alarm to eat every three hours or so
1. Focusing on positive things instead of stressful stuff
1. Wearing a mask even in the house during pollen season
1. Taking my Xyzol to keep from reacting to our dog

I don't have Diabetes but my family is a long history of type I and II
so I figure treating myself as if I could have it eventually is just
safe. So far my blood sugar insulin response seems like I could be
subject to it a bit. 

I just read on a site run by the Diabetes association that one way to
treat it is to essentially track your food (and your blood glucose,
which I'm not doing to do yet at this point) and eat about 1800 calories
tops (for an average size person) with no high-carbs. It's kind of like
the Keto diet without the huge negative side-effects of Ketosis,
replacing fruit with veggies, fluids, and fat --- glorious, good fats.

In fact, fat is really the secret to a lot of good health (for me). It
is so fucking ironic that one misunderstood study sent the entire world
into an obesity and Diabetes epidemic mostly because everyone eliminated
all fat from their diet.

Fat provides consistent energy and blood sugar without spiking. It
satisfies you so you eat less. Some fats are essential to building brain
cells.

One thing is for sure. Sugar is the *fucking* devil. It feeds Cancer. It
spikes insulin and destroys the Pancreas. It rots your teeth.
Statistically speaking Sugar is more deadly than Cocaine and yet they
are basically the same thing, addictive isolates taken from natural
sources.

##  Thursday, July 16, 2020, 7:46:42AM

I've been cleaning up the sites with the old Bash `kn` script now that
I'm taking all this luxurious time to actually finish Ezmark. It is
always good to use the prototype again to get a sense of what I was
trying to do in the first place. Keeps me grounded.

One thing that looks ludicrous to me now is adding so much data to the
YAML metadata header. Back then I was convinced it was easier to use the
YAML since it is more structured. But the truth is the YAML should
*always* be about the *meta*. Content specifications can call for
certain header names and structure to the Markdown (whatever flavor).
Anything else probably deserves its own file that can be rendered
inline, which is what the RenderMark approach is all about.

##  Wednesday, July 15, 2020, 4:49:13PM

Great ideas from the stream today about rendering the `TexExpr` block
and `Tex` inline as SVGs that are inlined into the HTML rather than
depending on a JavaScript library *at all!*

##  Wednesday, July 15, 2020, 4:27:32PM

Big great discussion about MathJax or KaTeX and what to call the AST
element. Pandoc mistakenly called it `Math`.

```markdown Here is a $\epsilon$ thing.

$$ \forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon $$ ```

So that turns into this:

Here is a $\epsilon$ thing.

$$ \forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon $$

##  Wednesday, July 15, 2020, 3:56:02PM

Was reminded that a `{{.TOC}}` in the template is a good idea and that
TOC content is metadata *not* data that really has no place in the
`README.md` file itself which is just bothersome to the content
maintainer and redundant to those downloading the content who already
have the TOC heading data in the `BASE/json` file.

Also decided that `Heading` attributes really need to be mandatory to
allow `Heading` text to be changed without impact.

##  Wednesday, July 15, 2020, 8:32:37AM

I love that Go's creators were so fucking experienced that they could
leave `goto` in Go without shame. It seems like the entire world of
less-than programmers don't get why they made this decision. But if you
truly want to understand a specific case where it makes a *ton* of
difference in efficiency take a look at Go's own syntax parser. Yep,
there's `goto` in all its glory doing what it was *meant* to do in
spectacular fashion. These are yet more reasons to truly understand why
Go is a *far more thoughtfully designed language than Rust*. Very few
people on planet Earth would even understand an explanation of why that
is objectively true. But it is nice to know they do exist. I am such a
Rob Pike fanboy. There I said it.

##  Tuesday, July 14, 2020, 3:02:22PM

While doing the PEG for KN Ezmark I realized that `BlockQuote` and `Div`
are effectively the same thing in the Pandoc AST. Both are containers,
but the `Div` is *far* superior to maintain and parse. In fact,
`BlockQuotes` have always been a pain in my ass. I've decided to try and
get away with dropping them entirely from Ezmark. I am sure some people
will scream and they can use other full parsers like Pandoc if they need
them.

This does mean that `Div` is actually a `SemDiv` because it is *not*
based on style. It denotes a semantic collection of content within the
current content such as a callout, note, or even an *actual* block
quote. People can use them for addresses and such as well. In fact, it
is the *exact same thing* as a `Fenced` syntax aware code block, but for
other stuff.

##  Monday, July 13, 2020, 2:44:42PM

The Pandoc AST isn't bad, it's just not what I would do. It's too much,
doesn't match CommonMark and just so damn annoying sometimes. I mean,
`Inline.Smallcaps` Really?

The biggest problem of all is how much you cannot change it.

Goldmark grew their own AST as well. It's not horrible, just not very
well informed from experience looking at document structure for several
years as I have been, obsessing over this stuff.

None of the document and knowledge solutions have ever *started* with
the AST model and worked up. The closest thing we have to that was the
DOM and we know how that ended up.

Back when I was doing the ABNF for BaseML (later EzMark) one thing
really stood out. None of the existing Markdown formats --- from the
very beginning --- were able to be rendered inline. They all required a
first pass in order to parse *all* the block types and reattach the
reference links and such. That has *always* annoyed me. Each block
should be consumable and rendered immediately after it is read. 

I really am having a hard time just shutting up and using Pandoc. There
is so much bloat and overkill to use that method. Pandoc Markdown
doesn't even look CommonMark compliant.

What I really want to do is specify a superset of CommonMark that is
100% Pandoc compliant that can be rendered immediately and mastered very
quickly. I want RenderMark.

##  Monday, July 13, 2020, 5:21:09AM

Up early after a long sleep. Must have been that three hour run/hike on
Saturday. Feels good though. I can tell my old body is returning.

##  Sunday, July 12, 2020, 5:01:04PM

Nothing like getting something great down on "paper" to motivate me to
do everything else to make it a reality. 

I love where the design of Knowledge Nodes is going --- particularly the
dynamic Node types that will ultimately display word maps by usage,
dependency trees, 2nd and 3rd level subscription recommendations, and
even some machine learning common usage patterns. 

The idea that I will be able to *visually* display my entire RWX
Knowledge Network out to two or three levels is so absolutely awesome
that I want to make it *today*! 

It is so hard to describe to people (including my wife) but when they
*finally* see this in action --- especially after we get a few hundred
people on the RWX Knowledge Net --- no one will even really want to use
Google again. Why use Google when I can search *all* the content from
everyone in my *customized knowledge network* instantly and locally? 

You won't even need a fucking web browser! Graphical knowledge net
browsers can run *entirely* on SSH connections and fallback to HTTPS
because they don't even need to access the Internet that much, only to
check in. *This* was the vision of RSS that never really came to pass. 

Seriously, this has very real potential to change the world in ways I
have always wanted. I hope Aaron would be proud. May this whole effort
succeed, for him.

##  Sunday, July 12, 2020, 8:58:51AM

What was I thinking? Just use `pandoc` you idiot! (That's me shouting at
me.) Even if did manage to create a PEG Golang parser (which I really
*want* to do because it would be fun) it makes no practical sense when
an entire project of brilliant people are supporting Pandoc *every day*.

So what if `pandoc` is a subprocess every time I call it. That's nothing
these days. Will speed rival Hugo? No, but it won't be as brain-dead as
Hugo either. Hugo was made by engineers, not academic and scientific
writers. That is why Pandoc has such a strong LaTeX influence and why R
make Pandoc its official documentation language.

If and when I hit a performance issue there are plenty of other ways to
address them:

* Create a daemon that automatically builds anything when changed. I
need this anyway to preview the rendering in pseudo-real-time.
* Cache AST parsing and word crunching so that it just has to be
recombined in a `make` like way.

Plus if I make this all about Pandoc I might even get some buy-in from
the Pandoc community itself, since Knowledge Net will be fundamentally
dependent on it. But hey, the WorldWideWeb was created by academics to
share information so why not?

##  Saturday, July 11, 2020, 8:38:29AM

Woke with an idea to build the Pandoc AST into the core RWX Knowledge
Net specification. In fact, I can use Pandoc in two stages to prepare
for its eventual replacement as a parser and renderer, first to generate
the JSON AST (loaded into a Go struct) and then to render by piping the
JSON AST into the `pandoc` app for rendering. It will make the initial
tool need double the calls to `pandoc`, which I was trying to reduce,
but for a *very* good reason. Later I can keep `pandoc` as a renderer
(since people will always want a fully configurable Pandoc rendering
option) but I will replace `pandoc` as a parser with a native Go PEG
parser.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 9:23:42PM

The more I dig deep into the Goldmark Golang Markdown library the more I
realize how bad it is, mostly because I have seen a very good AST
already (Pandoc). The author of Goldmark probably doesn't even know
Pandoc exists. So much for my Goldmark fascination. I sometimes hate
that I can actually look under the hood and see the shit for what it is
a lot of the time. Just the crappy autoidentifier code was enough to
throw it out for something that is actually specified (Pandoc). Every
quirk that Pandoc has is nothing compared to hack that Goldmark is.
Problem is, all the rest are even worse --- especially Blackfriday.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 12:06:31PM

That `vim-pandoc` plugin gets so many things wrong. I'm seriously
annoyed even though I should be grateful it exists in the first place. I
definitely need to make my own `vim-datadoc` plugin from scratch but
built on the ideas in `vim-pandoc`.

The official name for the syntax of all RWX Knowledge Nodes will be RWX
DataDoc Markdown. The emphasis is equally on the YAML data, not the
limited Pandoc Markdown of the document which is good since the YAML
data is *never* optional in a DataDoc.

Again, I have a lot of editing to do.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 11:53:26AM

This running has resulted in an explosion of brain power. I forgot how
much a slow recovery walk after a good 20-30 minute just hyper-charges
my brain with oxygen and great ideas --- even a new personal mantra
that's fun to chant to myself while running.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 9:49:45AM

I'm really struggling with a good alternative to Pandoc divs (`:::`). I
have really come to love them in my writing but the more I think about
them the more I realize pretty much everything I ever put into one
deserves its own knowledge node instead and a link. I have this problem
because I'm such a parenthetical writer. I am always by-the-way-ing this
or that instead of just focusing on the immediate topic. At least with a
link people can follow the tangents if they really want. 

I'm pretty sure serious publications handle this with the square bracket
syntax that refers to other articles.

\[[Here's yet another story about this.]\]

I like that approach the best I think. It is well-established and looks
pretty in my Vim editor because the brackets still force the text to be
highlighted even though they are escaped out with backslash.

Plus when parsing it all I have to look for 

Looks like I have a *lot* of rewriting to do. The good news is that I
will have a locked down writing style standard that I and anyone else
can follow if they want.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 9:39:28AM

Sometimes flexibility is the fucking devil. For example, allowing the
RWX Knowledge Net (yeah, that's the latest name I've been using) to be
anything *but* YAML and limited Pandoc Markdown is a huge disadvantage.

We can really see this with Hugo. It supports no less than three
"front-matter" (God I hate that term) structured data formats. What a
fucking nightmare! I am so glad to be free of that shitty design.

If there is one thing the last three decades of Web technology have
taught us it is that flexibility kills adoption and inhibits sharing.
This is why we still have YAML 1.2 spec from like more than *10 years
ago*. Smart designers do *not* want flexibility when it comes to things
like structured data formats. They want consistency.

So the RWX KN spec *only* allows a single YAML header and *optional*
body of limited Pandoc Markdown. Both are very solid standards that have
been in use for years.

##  Friday, July 10, 2020, 8:53:58AM 

Back to masturbatory note taking. The idea that I could whip up a blog
for every one of these random, spontaneous thoughts was just stupid.
Notes are the organic stuff that bubbles up and needs to be caught right
away before it fades. Then an article (or *blog*) can be made from that. 

By the way, I fucking hate the word *blog*. It has lost all specificity.
Usually when people say "blog" they mean "piece" or "article" or
"chapter." The term is dead to me. I will silently look at others who
use it and quietly mock them inside. It's my prerogative.

No, instead I hereby asset the following moniker for this random brain
dumping. From now and henceforth it shall be called --- wait for it ---
*note taking*. I know. The level of my brilliance cannot be grasped.
\*tongue firmly in cheek\*

##  Thursday, June 18, 2020, 6:46:47PM

I seriously can't get anything done because I keep having better ideas
before implementing the previous idea. It is getting really annoying.

The latest comes from really looking into the different forms of
knowledge node and realizing that if I can have an entire node just for
a concept or term definition I certainly can have one for a blog post.
This addresses another concern I was starting to have for letting users
order their blog entries the way they want when reading them as well as
being able to link to specific blog entries without having to load up
the whole weeks worth of stuff.

I've also been changing recently to putting some sort of title on the
blog to give a summary of it, which means I might as well title the
things.

The real question is what to make the URLs. Some say that the text in
the URL gives it a better score. I don't really care. I just want a
short, time-based URL. Hummm ...

``` 2020/wk24/some ```

Yeah that's the ticket.

##  Thursday, June 18, 2020, 5:35:45PM

My entire life I have struggled with seeing dumb shit and not having an
appropriate outlet for it. I thought the 'Shit' page here could help
with that. Then I experienced *another* racist prick who uses that
approach specifically to appeal to a *specific* type of person and I'm
like, "Oh shit." Yeah. It became clear that my venting could easily be
taken up by that same type of person.

Words are powerful and no matter how raw and frustrated I get from being
engaged with the world I *cannot* let it make me behave in ways that I
so deeply loathe in others. I am just a hypocrite at that point.

I'm not saying I'm going the other way and becoming a snowflake afraid
to disagree with anyone for fear of offending them simply by
contradicting them. A good *debate* is needed, not a personal,
shit-flinging fight.

##  Thursday, June 18, 2020, 4:55:40PM

Reminded today that some people are just such assholes and sometimes I'm
gonna get asked about them. Some YouTubers are obviously misogynistic,
racist, bigoted pricks who make fun of autistic people. After a bit of
personal frustration with the existence of these people and some support
from my wife and community I've recommitted to not get mad, just get
busy. I have to drown out these dumb-asses not just because of their
tech preferences but their influence on particularly young people.

Lucky I have one big advantage. I can form relatively persuasive
sentences that form paragraphs. Most of these assholes spend all their
time making lame videos and pumping up their echo chamber forums rather
than creating anything of substance. But then again, the world largely
doesn't *want* to read any more. Idiocracy is real.

##  Thursday, June 18, 2020, 9:12:07AM

The more I toy with Rust the more I realize that a languages strengths
are often disassociated with its syntax --- but not always. 

The stupid implementation of generics in Go to save a few compilation
milliseconds at the cost of syntax clarity *forever* was *not* worth it.
Just shows where the *current* Go teams priorities are. 

The Rust syntax is dense, but not difficult once you understand what is
going on. It reminds me of Perl so much it's uncanny. I chuckle a bit
that so many people are Rust lovers while at the same time hating on
Perl for its "read-only" complicated syntax. Rust syntax is *far more
dense* than Perl's for most applications.

Still I don't mind. God knows complicated syntaxes have never thwarted
me in the past. I have to say that the amount of *raw*, on-the-metal
power Rust provides with the promise and hope of a world full of *safe*
code is overwhelming, but I've been burned by languages making lofty
promises before. \*cough, Java\*

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 5:17:41PM

The CTF games <https://overthewire.org> and <https://picoctf.com> have
reminded me overwhelmingly that the secret to having fun learning is
gamification. I've always done it, but I sometimes move away from it a
bit as I get all teacher-y and start explaining stuff.

Well I'm here to report that returning to challenge-based learning is a
*massive* success. Every private mentored session starts with me giving
a challenge in terms of the specific outcome and not telling the person
*anything* about how to accomplish the challenge, only the key terms and
words they need to understand and research on their own to do it. The
reaction has been *overwhelming* --- so much that I really need to add a
point system to the whole thing eventually so people can have me check
them out and give them the points somehow, if not just encourage them to
keep track of them all somehow.

There are *so* many things that need to go into this new knowledge app.
I have to keep at it.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 4:16:32PM

After doing a few small challenge projects in Rust I'm finding how much
I *really* love Rust, not for the syntax, but for the absolute freedom
and seriously low-level of the language. It is *far* easier to integrate
C and C++ code with Rust than Go, and safer to do so. There are number
of other things bumping around in my head that are really annoying me
more than I care to admit about Go:

* **Go is unsafe by default.** You can relatively easily right broken,
unsafe concurrent Go code and likely won't even realize you are doing
so.

* **Go contexts are horrible.** I hate them. They are poorly conceived
and implemented. They feel so hack-ish to me.

* **Generics are being crammed in.** People are arguing about the
`generic(some)` syntax vs `generic<some>` and I have to admit the
contrarian position of avoiding the syntax for generics that has existed
forever in other languages is just plain stupid and annoying.

* **Go has OOP inheritance stink on it.** I actually read something
about the "diamond patterns" that can happen with "embedding" (code for
inheriting) other structures. It should surprise me since there was a
Java guy on the original design team for Go (who recently left). Rust
has more functional influence and smells a lot more like Haskell, which
is *so* much better.

* **Pike and original creators seem no longer engaged.** They rarely are
involved in the mailing list and having any direct input to the Go
project. It really feels like they are letting in languish and the
design decisions are much less informed of late. People on the list
reported problems with 1.14 but it got released anyway.

* **Brian Cantrill likes Rust, not Go.** I know this is a small thing
but I *really* respect his level of knowledge about languages and if he
has a problem with Go then I really have a problem as well.

* **Rust is industries ["best
chance"](https://thenewstack.io/microsoft-rust-is-the-industrys-best-chance-at-safe-systems-programming/)
for safe programming.** That's a pretty big statement from Microsoft of
all companies. If there is one thing the world needs, it is *less*
insecure code. That is almost entirely reason enough to get behind Rust
*no matter what*. The rise in cybersecurity needs will only get worse
and Rust is the safest systems development language on the planet, bar
none ('cept maybe Ada someone said) .

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 9:13:35AM

I've turned on syntax highlighting by default in `kn` because the blank
line fix addresses it. This will result in substantially larger
knowledge base renders than with it turned off but will allow people to
provide their own loadable syntax highlighting. It is just a matter of
time before the default knowledge base template contains the JavaScript
to tap and pick from a number of different syntax highlight options that
the *reader* can set based on their preference. I cannot wait, actually,
that is something I have been wanting to do ever since I set all the
standard colors of the rendered Web version as CSS variables that can
very easily be changed and stored in the browser or even downloaded as a
JSON file.

As much as I want to do other things eventually, this work on `kn` and
the `README.world` is *so* important that it *must* take priority. When
fully realized the world will have an easy way to capture, maintain,
share, and consume knowledge according to the preferences of the
*reader*. Taken to the n-th degree this could become the foundation for
all knowledge, even proprietary knowledge that needs to be sold. I have
not encountered any other solution to this problem that incorporates so
much of what is already best practices.

By the way, I cannot wait to integrate OpenPGP signatures as well. Every
time I see a star by someone's name in Twitter indicating that Twitter
has graciously decided to confirm for the world that a person is who
they say they are I feel a little kick in the butt to get signing
working. This is a problem that already has a solution --- that no one
actually uses because they *think* it is too hard.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 8:30:42AM

I'm super annoyed that Firefox decided to actually make whitespace a
node that screws up pre-formatted blocks. There is simply no way around
it without a horrible JavaScript fix that does not work for text-based
browsing. 

I did find a fix for Markdown documents that I hate but will have to
start following. Always put the fence posts in a code fence on their own
lines and deal with the extra blank lines always at the beginning and
ending, which is easy enough through some style changes.

This goes for Pandoc div fences as well:

~~~markdown

Do this:

```js


console.log('hello')


```

And this:

:::co-pwz

No seriously.

:::

~~~

That makes it more readable and searchable anyway so I'm fine with that
convention --- especially since it gets entirely out of the way when
doing optional syntax highlighting.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 7:59:27AM

Even though Linus even came out and said 80 characters is too limiting
for line lengths today, and the fact that I have been pushing for
one-big-long-line paragraphs in Markdown paragraphs to play better with
panes that might be less than 80 characters I have adopted a 72 maximum
line width convention for my own YAML knowledge base data, including the
`Summary` and paragraph forms of data.

Here's the thing. Once you sign off on putting your data into YAML
instead of Markdown you are accepting that white space matters ---
particularly initial white space since it is a fundamental of YAML
syntax, structure and readability. Such is not that case with Markdown.
Having a super long text value wrap and break up the clean whitespace
lines to the left is simply so ugly and hard to process that I couldn't
take it. 

Luckily Vim and other editors will automatically do this whitespace
indentation for you. And since Python is still so popular with people in
the world they will be fine with it.

This works particularly well for a new knowledge node format I've called
`ParaList` which has a distinct topical sentence `T` and a paragraph
body `P`. I can see if the topical sentence is getting to long just by
seeing if it wraps. 

```yaml --- Title: Don't Be a Lazy Learner Subtitle: Identifying an
Anti-Autodidact Quote: This is all just too much talking. Query: true

Type: ParaList

Summary: Sometimes understanding how to become one thing means first
understanding what that thing is *not*. Here's a list of characteristics
and behaviors you will find in an *anti*-autodidact, a lazy learner who
would rather make excuses than do the real work to learn on their own.

ParaList:

- T: They are bored and confused by words in general.
  P: The more words, the more they check out, spoken or written. Most
  have a ridiculously low vocabulary and don't ever let on how many of
  the words they don't understand in any given conversation. 

- T: They don't have the capacity or motivation to figure things out.
  P: They say shit like, "I don't get it" or "It's not working" or "I
  did what you said" or "The stupid computer won't..." or "What is
  happening?" They ask a lot of questions during movies.

- T: They want to be in the same space with people who *do* learn. 
  P: They are uncomfortable working from home. They wander into your
  cubical at work a lot. The feel safer in your presence because they
  don't on their own. They feel they need you close to learn, even on
  their own. ---

```

Typically such format constructs will have the topical sentence be first
and all bold while still remaining a part of the paragraph.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 7:29:45AM

YAML is the API of knowledge. I don't think I fully recognized the
genius that is behind the *full* and much derided version of YAML until
I started thinking of *all* my knowledge in terms that would fit into
one of a few self-made knowledge organization types. Turns out there are
only a few constructs we use to capture our knowledge and all of them
can be easily categorized as knowledge format types. I've been building
out the list made a few blog posts back and as I've been converting my
[RWX.GG]{.spy} knowledge base over I've been *loving* it in ways I'm
quite sure very few others will appreciate. Doesn't matter. I know Aaron
Swartz would approve. His is the only opinion I would work to win over.

One dilemma I am having, however, is how much to dismiss the idea that
all knowledge should be able to be written by *anyone*. I still maintain
that Pandoc Basic Markdown is the world's most universal and simple
format for knowledge without losing sustainability. But putting more of
my knowledge into the YAML section instead of the Markdown section could
be see as a move *away* from easy to attain technologies.

Basic YAML is *so* easy to learn and maintain and read that I feel like
this move is consistent with my primary goal of knowledge format
simplicity. If anything it might help people categorize their knowledge
as they capture it by pre-meditatively working from a few common
organizational formats that don't have anything to do with a heavy
syntax such as HTML --- or worse -- XML or the semantic web
specification.

One thing is for sure. Even if I do move my knowledge formats into a
form that requires learning YAML as well as Markdown and it puts it out
of reach from someone who just knows basic Markdown I feel I need to do
it anyway for much the same reason that a Mathematician would use LaTeX
within Pandoc to describe their knowledge. Some knowledge must be more
structured than simply a whole bunch of Markdown.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 6:54:41AM

Yesterday I had a lazy learner during the live session say, "This is
just all talk". The topic was "Get Linux" which requires an *enormous*
amount of discussion to get right. I made a big deal explaining how
important it is to assess the needs of the person to whom you are
recommending a Linux distro before just blurting out, "Manjaro is the
best!" 

People who make recommendations without considering the needs of the
people they are recommending too are irresponsible egomaniacs motivated
by something other than the welfare of those they claim to be helping.

Lazy learners have a few things in common:

* They are bored and confused by words in general. The more words, the
more they check out, spoken or written. Most have a ridiculously low
vocabulary and don't ever let on how many of the words they don't
understand in any given conversation.

* They say shit like, "I don't get it" or "It's not working" or "I did
what you said" or "The stupid computer won't..." because, in fact, they
don't have the capacity or motivation to even try a little to figure out
what is happening. 

* They generally want to be in the same space with you. They are
uncomfortable working from home. They wander into your cubical at work a
lot. The feel safer in your presence because they don't on their own.
They feel they need you close to learn, even on their own.

* They love mythology and Marvel movies. They don't have to think. The
don't even have to imagine. There are fewer words to confuse them. They
just plugin and go for a ride. This is also why they hate reading,
role-play, and sandbox video games.

* They are prone to religion and tutorials, which in many ways are the
same thing, a recipe for how to do something step-by-step without having
to think about *why* you are doing something. Just do what some says and
you'll have your app or your key to Heaven. It's the same appeal.
Working out how to make your own app or discovering modern ethical
behavior are hard, too hard for a lazy learner. They want to be told
what to do.

* They ask lazy questions like, "Which distro do you use?" or "Which
window manager is best?" or "What certificate do I need?" or "What
college should I go to?" Again, they would rather have a recipe than
analyze anything at all.

* They tend to be cheaters because they don't value learning at all.
They are more focused on what they can *get* than what they can learn.
They would hate Kant's categorical imperative if they even knew what
that meant.

* They generally lack self-awareness and avoid introspection with
distraction and urgency addiction. When you ask them what they want to
do with their lives --- or even the current day --- they struggle to
answer. Asking them what they are good at usually results in long
pauses.

* They are either super depressed or overwhelmingly over confident.

##  Wednesday, June 17, 2020, 6:38:53AM

While helping people during private mentoring I'm becoming more aware of
just how difficult it is to get a handle on one's own knowledge
management. In fact, I'm now convinced it just might be the single
biggest thing blocking people from doing their own learning, from
becoming a *true* autodidact. Without being able to *write down* what it
is that you are learning and learn from your own written self
assessments that you can search for later you just cannot learn
effectively. In lay terms, you cannot learn without taking good notes
--- especially if your notes are also your main text book.

This is a bit frustrating because the number of people who simply don't
even know how to form a sentence --- let along type it quickly and
coherently into a codebook --- is far too high. I think this was part of
the reason I was so frustrated later. I realized that my formula for
learning might simply not be as universal as I'd hoped because of this
*major* prerequisite. If you cannot read, write, and type you cannot
become an effective autodidact --- let alone create your own exercises
and execute your own activities and self-assessment. Learning to learn
is actually way harder than I have thought it to be, but like so many
things, because I surround myself with those who have already learned it
on their own I've had the impression that its not difficult at all.
Having them around me has confirmed a false bias and conclusion that
learning is easy, that it is innate, that it does not have to be taught.
It does.

In short, I need to have a boost for each of the RWX elements, reading,
writing, and executing. I also probably have to have one for basic
computer algebra.

##  Tuesday, June 16, 2020, 5:58:37PM

I have had a lot of success moving to a more data model approach to the
knowledge bases. It feels a lot like what was intended behind the
semantic web but more focused on localized, even personal, knowledge
instead. If there is one thing I continue to obsess over it is
organizing, capturing, and sharing knowledge in a digestible, searchable
way.

The latest breakthrough was adding a `Challenge` category with the
`Prereqs` pointing to other `HowTo` type knowledge nodes. The Challenge
nodes are of type `HowTo` as well.

##  Tuesday, June 16, 2020, 5:35:46PM

Don't know if it is the dreary day outside but feeling a little
depressed. I have all the reasons in the world to be happy. Let's face
it. I'm a sun worshiper. I always knew it.

I think I'm battling feelings of being under-appreciated a bit as well.
I know that people value what I'm putting into the world --- for free
--- but I do sometimes wonder if they realize just how valuable the
information I am putting out there is. Yesterday I reviewed an
absolutely horrendous book that is \$37 at Amazon. I fell for it. I
bought it. It absolutely sucks. But they have my money no less.

Meanwhile I continue to endeavour to put out high quality accurate,
modern content that is backed with objective experience and research
only to have to deal with the occasional downvote from a dolt who
doesn't even know what the word dolt means.

I am seriously saddened by the overwhelming level of stupidity rising
all over the world. All I can do is help to fight it with every breath.
But it is the incessant attack on my optimism that eventually gets the
best of me and makes me just want to do the minimum to get by and
languish in escapism for the rest of it. So many people *live* in their
escapism --- especially now.

I need more coffee.

##  Tuesday, June 16, 2020, 4:23:03PM

I read a dumb comment in a StackExchange post that said, "Why would you
ever learn shell? No one ever gets a job with that." 

I can't believe that level of cluelessness of that statement. The thing
that people think isn't "going to get them a job" is actually the most
magical way of making the 10x better than anyone else qualified for that
job --- especially if you are going into anything in cybersecurity or
systems operations.

##  Monday, June 15, 2020, 9:43:09AM

Looks like [Google's shell scripting
guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/shellguide.html) agrees with
my conclusions on pretty much everything. It doesn't just validate my
conclusions on Bash but everything I keep saying about all the shitty
advice out there --- particularly on YouTube.

One thing that convinced me to go back to two-space indent was Google's
guide. The waste of space has started grating on me --- especially now
that YAML is being affected. I would rather have more levels of modern
nesting than a default that wastes space.

Also discovered `shellcheck` after reading the Google guide. This isn't
the kind of utility that I would have exposure to in my previous
POSIX-only life. It is an absolute *must* for beginners and will
definitely be the first thing I introduce, along with `bat` for
test-driven shell development.

I did discover that there is a `readonly` keyword which is the same as
`declare -r` which is far more useful when declaring global constants. I
also ran into an interesting quirk that prevents the use of any
`readonly` variable name *anywhere* else in the code. It throws an error
even when using `declare` within a function scope.

I confirmed again that `declare` is *exactly* the same as `local` but
learned that the `local` keyword accepts *all* of the same options that
`declare` does. Therefore I will begin using Google's convention of
`local` only for stuff within functions and `declare` only for global
stuff at the top and `readonly` for constants. While there is no
technical requirement to do so, this distinction makes for much more
readable code.

##  Sunday, June 14, 2020, 1:21:44PM

Everyone knows how much I love Go. But something interesting has been
happening since fully adopting Bash concurrency and learning a bit of
Rust. Rust and Bash are squeezing out my personal need for Go. 

Let me explain.

In the old days you had shell and C. That was it. C was even called a
"high-level" language by Kernighan at the time. Today I'm finding the
equivalent to be Bash and Rust. Go replaces Python. But the space
occupied by Python is also becoming smaller, at least for me.

I'm not doing a lot of cross-platform general purpose and machine
learning programming. I'm not even doing a lot of terminal UI program
development or back-end web services development. These are Go's sweet
spots.

Bash has *completely* taken over almost everything I would ever need for
Python and Perl (and I never did use Node, thank God). In fact, now that
I am more fluent with `coproc` and `&` for backgrounding processes
efficiently Bash has taken over a *large* part of what I would grab Go
for before.

I also have been realizing just how bad Go is for beginners *when
specifically learning concurrency*. I used to think Go was great for
beginners because of its simplicity. But that is exactly why it is
dangerous. Go does not protect beginners in any way from writing unsafe,
concurrent code. In fact, it is even *more* likely because it is so easy
to write for beginners to write concurrent code with goroutines.
Beginners never learn the safeties built into the compiler to check for
race conditions and such. It is *never* covered in any material --- if
you can even find *any* up to date material at all. That's bad.

Meanwhile, despite the complexity of Rust for concurrency and general
syntax that I've been railing on because it is *so* hard for beginners
to get their heads around, when a beginner finally does learn
concurrency in Rust they get safety automatically. They have to forcibly
break the safeties of concurrency already in place. In fact, Rust is a
much safer language all around to learn, *far* more safe than Go even
though Rust syntax is *wildly* more complex than Go's.

Rust clearly replaces C and C++ for Unix philosophy compliant commands.
Rust is a *very* good candidate to rewrite all the old busted boomer GNU
code. Go isn't. In fact, it is a [wish](/wishes/) of mine that someone
would write a 100% compatible Bash shell clone under a permissive
license in Rust.

Then there's the what-would-I-require approach. 

What if I had to run a company and my very life depended on the team I
hire to be able to produce *safe*, robust code quickly that would remain
completely sustainable over time? Would I want to hire a bunch of Go
programmers who possibly came from the Node and Python community? Or
would I want the 10x developers who *understand* Rust and why it is so
significant, like Brian Cantrill. 

Picking Rust means rather than having to vet a potential Go programmer
by asking all kinds of questions about compiling with the profiler and
race condition checks I can simply ask to see an example of a
candidate's concurrent Rust code instead. It is *much* harder to
identify a Go programmer experienced with safe concurrent programming
than a Rust programmer of equal skill. 

Clearly if my life depended on it I would want Rust developers over
*all* of the others even if I had to spend 10x the effort to find them.
If I made a bad hire I'd still happy with the fact that it is nearly
impossible to write unsafe code in Rust. In other words, Rust covers me
on two fronts: (a) only really well informed and naturally good
programmers even learn Rust, and (b) beginning Rust programmer are
*more* likely to produce good, strong code that will stand the test of
time.

No wonder it seems like all the good Rust developer jobs are in Germany.

Rust makes it easier to filter out those who just aren't safe
programmers. If my life and company depended on it, the *value
proposition* of the Rust language is much more compelling. It just
depends on if Rust truly delivers on the promise of *safe* concurrency.
That's where I need to focus my research.

What I'm saying, I think, is that even though I've barely coded anything
of any significance in Rust I now see why the counter-intuitive notion
that Rust is better for beginners *despite* its complexity might, in
fact, be objectively true. This compels me to fully master Rust by
writing a few very significant projects in it --- specially things that
benefit from Rust's strengths: small run-time, no garbage collection,
memory safety, PEG <https://pest.rs> library, and raw speed.

Therefore, my plan is to entirely complete and grow `kn` into the
primary utility and keep it in Bash. Then I will supplement it modularly
by providing additional commands such as a `Pandoc Light Parser` in Rust
can be be used independently in the Unix philosophy integrated *into*
`kn` through regular command calls, just like I do with `pandoc` now.

##  Sunday, June 14, 2020, 1:01:33PM

Here are my needs when it comes my most common needs for tools and
languages:

1. Stuff to help me automate and simplify life on the command line
1. Stuff to create highly efficient, Unix-philosophy compiled commands
1. Stuff to make front-end web sites and apps
1. Stuff to make back-end web services

I imagine myself looking into the toolbox when I'm about to work on
something. 

* If I need to duck-tape a bunch of stuff together to make something
that just works I grab Bash.
* If I need to create a highly optimized command that can be duct-taped
I use Go, Rust or C.
* If I need a front-end web site or app I grab Markdown, HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, Pandoc, and Vue.
* If I need a back-end service I grab Docker, Go, Rust, Nginx, GraphQL,
PostgreSQL.

When it comes to getting shit done there is nothing faster than Bash. I
have objectively demonstrated that to myself over and over again. The
`twitch` tool, [[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[[my `kn` utility](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn)](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/kn), and my `repo` GitHub *and* GitLab tools
have been in Bash and will *never* be rewritten in any other language.
There just is no need. Now that I've discovered `coproc` and started
using `&` to background processes more I simply do not need a
complicated strictly typed language to achieve maximum concurrency as
fast as possible --- both in terms of execution *and* development speed.

##  Sunday, June 14, 2020, 12:45:17PM

So I have to admit Rust syntax and style is really bork, but I'm
definitely okay with it. It did cause me to reconsider my fetish for
2-space tabs that I took to some two years back after doing a lot of
JavaScript development. Now [Linus Torvaldz and everyone else agrees 80
characters is too limiting given modern terminal
widths](https://duck.com/lite?kae=t&q=Linus Torvaldz and everyone else
agrees 80 characters is too limiting given modern terminal widths) all
the arguments for 2-spaces really fall apart --- especially since four
spaces has been the standard for most languages for more than two
decades. It is one of the few things that Python, PHP, Perl and shell
coders generally all agree on. Plus it is just so much more readable ---
especially when disabling syntax highlighting of any kind.

So I have been slowly but surely changing all my code and writing to
include the new 4-space standard. It's amazing how much something so
seemingly trivial can produce *so* much work. 

I feel like I just can't get my feet under me lately with so much going
on. When I do run into old stuff, like my first knowledge base back in
2013 I realize how much progress I have made. The Knowledge Management
Utility (`kn`) that I have been working with during all of this is *so*
ideal because it just gets so much done so quickly. There is seriously
nothing faster than prototyping in Bash. Bash *blows away* my best
productivity with Python, Perl, Go and any other language I've used in
the past. 

It is really such a shame that more people *don't understand this fact*
because they haven't been exposed to it. But I'm doing everything in my
power to change that and shoot our collective productivity forward for
those with the good sense to truly consider and understand why. Just
like any age, most people will continue to simply no understand, but it
warms my heart to encounter someone line
[\@gamozo](https://twitch.tv/gamozo) and be like, "Woah, this dude
*knows* what I'm talking about." 

In fact, I find that people in the pentesting and security field almost
automatically understand where I'm coming from. That is enough
consolation for me since the %37 annual increase in demand for the
fastest tech career in the world is specifically full of those people.
We are all just hackers at heart even if we are doing the tools
engineering and not the pentesting. All the other Java and C++
developers can just play with their toys and leave us alone. I won't say
it is a cliche, but its a cliche. You either get it and are one of the
cool kids or you don't and frankly don't belong. No need to be mean,
just realistic. A *lot* of people just don't have what it takes to truly
master the terminal including Bash scripting an prototyping. Most don't
have the commitment and ability to even master touch typing, let alone
terminal skills. The world will always be filled with such people. They
aren't *bad* people or *stupid* people. They are just not hacker
material and never will be. The end. 

##  Sunday, June 14, 2020, 10:44:55AM

Today I opened up my Basic Markdown video to find a "dislike" for no
apparent reason. Humanity has invented very few things as fucking stupid
as "likes" and "dislikes". The Black Mirror episode about it doesn't
even come close to capturing it.

Someone can be a complete fucking moron and simply dislike something
voting it down. Then another dumb ass can upvote something else. *You
have no idea about the spineless cowards who refuse to take two minute
to justify their position.* 

The *only* reason like and dislikes exist is so that the service
providing them can suck in more shallow participants, ad revenue, and
money. In other words, once again marketing and ad revenue are
*destroying* authenticity and intelligent dialog.

##  Saturday, June 13, 2020, 11:34:18AM

Feels good getting all those `Types` captured. Now time to rip apart the
entire "studio" and reorganize the house. It's nice to have the weekend
"off" but I've just filled it up again with other shit to do.

##  Saturday, June 13, 2020, 10:23:23AM

The list of knowledge node `Type`s is shaping up nicely. It's evolved a
bit from earlier versions which did not allow nodes to be contained
within others. This directory organization --- along with the
constraints on node directory IDs --- has made for several improvements
that were not possible before.

-------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Paragraph     Just a single paragraph which Pandoc Mardown emphasis.

 Unordered     Simple, one-level list containing markdown that will be
 rendered by looping through and loading the template partial specified
 for the node. By default each item in the list is a simple unordered
 list item with a bullet.

 Ordered       Simple, numbered, one-level list containing markdown that
 will be rendered by looping through and loading the template partial
 specified for the node. By default each item in the list is a simple
 numbered list item. Numbered means numbered, not lettered.

 Blockquote    Same as Pandoc Markdown.

 Verbatim      Same as Pandoc Markdown.

 Code          File contains only code in a given language.

 Article       (Default) Akin to a "page", "document", magazine article,
 blog post, definition, encyclopedia entry and such.

 Spec          A specification can be as informal as a challenge to test
 skills doing different programming tasks or as formal as a corporate
 project RFC. `Stories` contains the user stories, sentences or
 paragraphs describing examples of how stuff will work. Stories are
 usually no more than three lines of text. More formal specs can include
 `Reqs` lists to fulfill the full
 [INVEST](https://scrumandkanban.co.uk/what-makes-a-good-user-story/)
 characteristics of a good spec. Think of how a highly skilled team of
 professional hackers would outline an op, or what corporate client
 might want built into an application. Both are `Spec`s with `Stories`
 and `Reqs` describing the *outcome* at each step along the way to
 success.

 HowTo         Step by step, walkthrough of a how to execute a specific
 or generic task often outlines in a `Spec` node. Each step must have a
 summary of the step, followed by a detailed explanation and
 demonstration of how to do it. Use header levels to group and
 implicitely number the steps. There are no special YAML traits. Usually
 a single `HowTo` contains several `Prereqs` to help avoid maintaining
 an excessively hyperlinked body. Adding the `Spoilers` boolean will
 progressively reveal all headings and paragraphs incrementally.
 
 Log           Cronological listing where each second level header is a
 time stamp the format of which is defined for the knowledge base or
 individually in the YAML for a given node. Order is irrelevant since
 that is a matter of sorting for the consumer of the data, which can
 easily be altered through DOM manipulation with JavaScript, for
 example.

 Collection    A list of maps specified in a `Schema` header using YAML
 `!!` notation for the basic types `float`, `str`, `list`, `map`,
 `bool`, `timestamp`, `set`, `binary`, etc.

 ParaList      Similar to a `Bulleted` list but each item is a simple
 paragraph with an initial topical sentence that is usually bolded.

 NumParaList   Same as `ParaList` but numbered. Numbered means numbered,
 not lettered.

 Table         Simple table where `Fields` are specified and each record
 in the list is also a list. Generally a `Collection` is preferred for
 its superior ability to capture complex data structures.

 Image         Single image.

 Video§        Single video reference. Usually video will not be stored
 locally. If so, the rendered node will contain an embedded player for
 the video. If the URL is external *and* Internet access is detected the
 video should be embedded using the default video partial or one for the
 specific node if available. A `thumbnail.png` matching one full frame
 of the video resolution should always be included. Any additional
 Markdown can be included in the body of the node to annotate the video.
 Nothing should refer to any specific video service using minutes and
 seconds notation instead to allow the viewer to find the location in
 the video themselves. Can be combined with other node types and will
 render differently depending on the combined type. When combined, the
 `Title`s are identical.

 Audio§        Essentially the same as video but without a
 `thumbnail.png`. Can be combined with other node types and will render
 differently depending on the combined type. When combined, the `Title`s
 are identical.

 ImageMap§      An image with clickable regions that link to internal
 nodes and external resources. Rendered as a `map` in HTML.

 Diagram§      Any large image of any type that can be displayed inline
 as well as providing a link to a file containing the diagram. Usually
 contains annotations as well.

 Slides        Follows the specific Pandoc slides format conventions.

 Chart§        Any of a number of chart format types. A fallback
 `chart.{png,jpg,svg}` must be provided but rendering formats can
 progressively replace it with interactive chart renderings of any kind.

 Quiz          Simple YAML list of `Q`s and `A`s where the questions are
 single paragraphs of Markdown of reasonable size, which can contain
 images, and the answers are regular expressions for every possible
 accepted answer. Renderers can progressively allow the answers typed in
 and validated in real time. There will never be multiple choice of any
 kind, ever. Just a list of human-readable acceptable `Answers` that
 match the regex that can be revealed with a click or tap on mobile
 devices.

 *Outline*     An automatically generated node that recusively examines
 all the nodes listed by ID in the `Outline` property and creates a
 *plain* indented outline by title only.

 *Bookmarks*   An automatically generated node that reads the `Titles`
 of all the listed nodes in the `Bookmarks` property and links them to
 their IDs and URLs. Can include both knowledge nodes and external Web
 URLs.

 *Catalog*     An automatically generated node that reads *all* YAML
 properties from all of the listed nodes within `Catalog` making the
 data within them available to the template renderer. Rendering depends
 completely on the target rendering format.

 *Redirect*    A simple redirect to another page. The `Redirect` points
 to the new location. These are picked up by renders and collected into
 whatever form of redirection functionality is available for the
 rendered format. For example, an HTML renderer gathers them into a
 `_redirects` file.

 *Aggregate*   An aggregate of knowledge nodes into a single node
 containing all the content from the aggregate nodes in the order listed
 in `Aggregate`. Useful for composing books, articles, courses, and such
 from existing nodes. Nodes listed in `Aggregate` may be local or
 remote. If remote a full URI is required and the remote node must fully
 comply with knowledge node specifications, which are mostly just to
 have a `README.md` file contained within the URI and that only local
 dependencies marked with `./` will be pulled over.

 *Latest*      An automatically generated node that recursively examines
 all the nodes within itself for those with the latest changes and
 displays them. Ignores and other criteria are passed to the `Latest`
 property. -------------
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* *Italics* indicates an node that is mostly automatically generated
node.
* `§` indicates a node that can be combined with any other node that is
not *italicised* or also marked with `§`.

I'm really glad to see the notion of optionally inlined header includes
again. That was a part of the original Essential Web design in 2014.

##  Saturday, June 13, 2020, 10:05:42AM

Feeling really triggered by something as simple as an unnecessarily
complicated URL like those on the completely brain-dead documentation
site <https://readthedocs.org>. Here's an example, the URL to their
"Getting Started" page: 

<https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-sphinx.html>

Yeah right, like anyone is every going to commit that to memory. How
fucking stupid do you have to be to build a system that results in URLs
that span more than a screen of text?!

You know what this *should* have been?

<https://en.docs.tech/intro/start>

But that is too much to expect from a bunch of Python-loving, Sphinx
pushing, non-writers. Perhaps they thing that URL will do more for their
SEO (like I once did). It doesn't.

Sphinx is *so fucking stupid!* Oh my God, I'm so triggered. 

You can tell engineers made it and not anyone who actually has to write
for a living. You know how stupid their designs are just by noticing
their focus on Python and reStructuredText. Hell, they don't even use
standard Markdown nor even seem to know what Pandoc is.

This triggers me because it is --- once again --- an example of people
designing things *without even imagining how the shit is going to be
used*. People *completely* put out of their mind the person using what
they are designing.

Don't get mad, get busy, Rob. Don't get mad, get busy.

What we need is not yet another application or site, we need some
standards and best practices for the content *itself* first and then any
application can be layered on top of that.

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 7:17:01PM

I'm revisiting the language and terms I use a lot lately. One term that
really holds up is *challenge*. People really respond to it. It's
essentially the same thing as an *exercise* but invokes a lot more
motivation and fun.

Another place that we see challenge-based learning *really* skyrocketing
is in the CTF and security space. Essentially every "wargame" *is* a
challenge. The only difference is that there isn't something to find, no
prize to unlock or discover. But maybe there should be?

The word *challenge* also can replace the word *project* where a
specification is written out and the challenge is complete when the
project matches the specifications.

After considering the boring term *howto* there really is no comparison.
The *howto* is simply the *walkthrough*, the *recipe*, the *solution*.

I'm trying to reduce the complexity of terms and number of menus on
[RWX.GG](https://rwx.gg){.spy} and think I've got them now:

--------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Welcome       How to join our community and what we are about, how to
connect. Questions     Dos, don'ts, who, what, when, where, why? Boosts
Combinations of Tools, Challenges, Definitions, Articles, and Tools
Challenges    Projects small and large, howto, walkthroughs. Latest
Automated recent created, updated, or modified content. Also news.
--------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Each of these is actually just an index.

Boosts are the trickiest to categorize. 

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 6:52:35PM

Made the mistake of clicking on my stream stats. My high point was 125
subs. I'm down to 67. 

It actually just makes me laugh. It shows how fickle people are and how
much they think that somehow by *buying* a book or subbing to a streamer
that all their magical learning problems will go away and they'll be
able to suddenly get great jobs as coders or hackers.

So it's back to streaming as usual. Eventually I'll add the schedule
back. But I'm not ready yet. I'm on the verge of committing to never do
a video destined for YouTube until I have the entire write up complete
so that I can read from it and people can follow along, no more
summaries and overviews.

I *really* do love the people who have been tuning in and trying their
best --- especially those expressing their support for the herculean
effort it takes to make all of this available.

That is why when I stopped the boost. People were dropping like flies.
They couldn't keep up. I said from the beginning it would require an
*eight hour per day* commitment. But that was just too much. I *knew* it
going into it, but even the fastest among the group couldn't keep up.
These are smart and dedicated people most of who have *no idea* how to
learn and take responsibility for their own learning.

The answer is the same as it always was: modular content that they can
consume when they want and need at their own pace *and a community there
to help them with motivation and answers.* That is what I will continue
to provide. 

But I do laugh because as usual, the *right* way to do something is the
*opposite* of the way that gets the most attention and money. I never
did the boost to get any money. I *always* wanted a way to get feedback
on preparation of materials for everyone. It's a good thing too, because
as soon as I made the change everyone just stopped coming. 

Then to make matters "worse" (if my priorities were actually on my
success as a streamer according to Twitch statistics) I went and started
OverTheShoulder streaming again which is when I don't respond at all to
anyone in the chat and just live stream what I'm writing and doing. Only
a hearty few really care for such things --- especially when it involves
just thinking through things like knowledge management and not showing
everyone how to hack or make millions in the latest fad language.

I suppose the thing that saddens me the most is how frequently I
encounter people unwilling --- or worse --- unable to simply communicate
in written form at all. So much of the value I provide is by writing
shit down that no one yet has and working on sustainable ways of keeping
it up and maintained. Sometimes it seems that only a very few actually
*really* appreciate that side of the work.

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 6:10:33PM

The last few days the news has been filled with the gory scene of a
75-year-old activist doing nothing but *standing* being pushed to his
brain-death as he fell on his head and bled out on the sidewalk in front
of his cities town hall. Our shit-for-brains, legally certified insane
non-president said essentially that it was his fault for being there and
a bunch of other Republicans agreed.

This is why I don't watch this shit very much despite how important it
is. Watching that video is bad, but watching the unapologetic cops that
did this be released  to *cheers from a full crowd of cops and other
supporters* is enough to seriously activate *anyone* with a heart.
Empathy is dead.

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 4:19:50PM

So hard going through knowledge base migrations. People want the old
content because they don't know something new is available and sometimes
the new stuff has bugs and broken links. I'd go so far as to say that
maintaining a knowledge base is *way* more difficult than maintaining
any open source project.

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 2:52:11PM

The fundamental to all the knowledge issue is the *inability to audit
the knowledge*. If it was code or some type of system you would call it
"technical debt" but we don't have the same concept when it comes to our
knowledge systems.

I think the fix might have something to do with *purposefully* breaking
things, meaning that if something does *not* get an update it
*automatically* disappears thus *forcing* content maintainers to receive
notifications that stuff is *explicitly* breaking.

What are the things that can be audited in a knowledge base?

* Are there any broken hyperlinks?
* How old the content is? Has it expired?
* Have any dependencies expired?
* Regular spelling and grammar things.

"Information is relevant as long as THIS is true. 'Great phone to get.'
--> 'This phone is top 5 best phone.'"

"Deep learning" depends on "Machine learning"

##  Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 9:51:20AM

One of the simplest questions that has driven me nearly insane is what
*specifically* to call what O'Reilly starting calling "recipes" and
others call "HowTos" and even "tutorials". That last one is so
*phenomenally* inaccurate yet popular that it actually makes my blood
boil more than I'd like to admit. I have blogged about these definitions
so much it all starts to seem to glaze over. So here's another blog post
*about the same thing*.

Thankfully we actually have some solid terms for this stuff in the
technical realm, its just that muggles have no idea what they mean,
without some explanation:

  Term       Definition ------------
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Operation   Something done with parameters without specifying how it
  is accomplished. Method      The *way* an operation is completed.
  Procedure   Same as method but used more commonly when involving
  people. Function    Takes optional input and returns output with no
  side-effects. Also job with people. Task        Sometimes operation,
  others method or procedure. Usually time-bound. Skill       The
  capability to successfully execute a specific task. Ability     A
  capability that is generally more *innate* and much harder to learn.
  Superpower. Job         All over the map. A specific task underway.
  Also person's occupation. Occupation  What a person does with their
  time usually to make money and fill a social need. HowTo
  Technically a method for people. Often associated with task. Requires
  skill. Knowledge   The stuff that can be contained in human brain
  including skills and abilities.

 You can see that there is a lot overlap between the terms --- some of
 it very confusing. The review has been helpful, however. It seems clear
 that the term I should use on RWX.gg and in other knowledge bases is
 `howto` because it speaks so clearly to *most* people. "Oh, it's 'how
 to' do something. Okay. \*click\*" It also makes the IDs read like
 English sentences like (`/tools/ssh/howto/catpub`). In a pseudo-OOP
 form for the human "class" it might be `Human.ssh.catpub()` and if my
 specific instance of `Human` called the method `rwxrob.ssh.catpub()`. 

 I won't lie. Imagining what code would look like that described
 real-world procedures being done by instances of humans makes me smile.
 I'm just that weird. Later when we find out that we actually *are* just
 computers at some level it will be even more entertaining. But I
 seriously doubt any algorithms in the natural world have ever been
 *coded* as opposed to *discovered* through millions of small
 improvements as we see with machine learning today, (which reminds me,
 I need to make time on one of my now free weekends to crack open the
 calculus of machine learning and really sink into it.)

 There's another interesting fact that emerges. Human brains can be
 discussed and approached just like any other device that can be
 programmed. It's just that the *method* of programming a human brain is
 radically different than programming modern digital computers. This
 fact can inform decisions about how to organize knowledge and design
 methods of learning. It is the reason that *knowledge source code* is
 an accurate description of any stored knowledge that a human brain can
 consume, the most fundamental of which is text.

 The one thing that the 90s OOP insanity got right was the *clear*
 distinction between *operations* and *methods* much like Pascal and SQL
 got *functions* and *procedures* right.
 
 Thankfully it is just lazy people that call these things by their
 incorrect names today because the languages allow them to be referred
 to correctly in Bash, Python, and JavaScript. You don't *have* to use
 the brain-dead "function" keywords in those languages. I mean, ***IT'S
 NOT A FUCKING FUNCTION!*** Okay, calm down. Rust and Go jumped on to
 the stupid-train by forcing the use of `fn` and `func` for things that
 having *nothing* to do with functions. That was sheer laziness by the
 creators of the language syntax. Perl has `sub` which is ideal because,
 after all, that is what most of those things actually are. But God help
 you if you use the term *subroutine* today. "OKAY BOOMER," is the
 response even though it is so much more accurate its actually sad. All
 these people who don't know the difference are actually the problem.
 They cannot decide if their code in this block right here is actually a
 function or a subroutine/procedure and *that* is what is causing the
 problem. Who am I kidding? No one gives a shit. The massive amounts of
 absolute crap code that hacker are walking through and that is killing
 people in their cars still isn't enough to make people care. Besides,
 the people being affected aren't the coders writing it. Its the poor
 souls being affected by it after the coder has cashed out and moved on
 to the next easy gig. That trend is only going to get worse as more and
 more people don't even bother to vet the code at all.

##  Tuesday, June 9, 2020, 9:45:12PM

Realizing that I have to have a solid look at the data model for RWX
before getting too much further into adding content to it. I'm up to
some 200 or so nodes and the organization is starting to weigh a bit
like it always does when I do a refactor. This time, however, it is
rather obvious that YAML and partials are the answer.

There are a few specifics I have to work out for the common YAML meta
data fields. I have a solid `Category` and `Type` grouping defined from
before all this happened. But there are other state properties that need
to come into play in order to allow them to be displayed in indices
without a problem but also without providing *any* broken links. Here's
what I'm thinking so far:

--------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Field         Description --------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Title         Most important and 100% relevant even if rhetorical.

 Query         Set to anything (`true`) to activate an external search
 query hyperlink for the Title. 

 Subtitle      Snarky or clarifying addition. Not necessarily relevant.
 More rhetorical.

 Category      Specifies the *topic* of content. (ex: boost, course,
 howto, review)

 Type          Specifies the *format* of content. (ex: article
 (default), table, log, revlog, walkthrough, schedule, toc, index, list)

 Summary       Only requirement is that it be a single paragraph/line.
 Should cover everything from reading the whole thing including premise
 and conclusion with as much justification for the conclusion as
 possible. Reading the whole thing should be for those who want the
 details. This is the TLDR but better. In many cases the Summary might
 be all that is needed --- particularly for definitions.

 Created       Optional date and time in ISO (without the T) when the
 original content was created. Particularly useful for articles. 

 Updated       Last date and time in ISO of any official update or
 errata fix. Different than the Created time stamp.
 
 Planned       A rhetorical or ISO date or time span when this
 particilar node can be expected to be complete and available for full
 reading and use. This field allows the framing of content in an
 organized way without creating broken links. While having a Summary
 available along with Planned is preferred it is not required.

 ExpiresOn     Exact date on which this content will definitely have
 expired if not at least checked for relevance. If omitted let the
 auditing tool decide on a default age based on the Updated, Created or
 last modified dates.

 PreReqs       Stuff that is *good to know* and *strongly recommended*
 before consuming this node. This node cannot exist without the other
 prerequisite nodes also existing and being up to date. Critical+
 relationship. Not only will this node be omitted if a prereq is not
 available, but the prereqs should be consumed *before* this node.

 DependsOn     Creates a composition relationship with the node or
 external content referenced meaning that if the dependency changes or
 is removed that this node should be made immediately defunct until the
 dependency can be resolved or a new dependency can be established. This
 means, for example, that if a dependency returns a 404 during a link
 scan that the node is *omitted* entirely until the link is resolved.
 Critical relationship.

 SeeAlso       Set to a list of any Markdown string containing local or
 exteral links, references, or even just words referring to things the
 reader should look into. *Be generous in adding entries --- especially
 those that objectively and rationally take an opposing position to
 conclusions in the content --- in order to encourage examining a bredth
 of input and data on the topic. Loose relationship.
 
 
 Deprecated    A text field explaining why the node is *old* enough to
 be ignored but *leave* it so that others understand that it *is*
 deprecated in case other external nodes have linked to it.

 Contributors  The Name and site ID of anyone who has contributed to
 this specific node. The ID is also the canonical link to
 `/contrib/<ID>/` which any contributor can add and update for
 themselves at any time with a merge request. The Contributors of the
 root node (.) are those who have contributed to more than 20 specific
 nodes in such a way that being listed as a main or default contributor
 makes more sense.

 Video         The full URI to the accompanying video be it on the Web
 or elsewhere. If this is set any indeces created will have a television
 emoji 📺 that links directly to the video so as to make more sense than
 is possible through any sort of video service playlist organization
 even if such is in place as well.

 Audio         Same as Video but Audio. If Video can be consumed simply
 as Audio as well then just use Video instead. This distinction is more
 about the help application that will be used than the format itself.
 However, whenever possible *all* content should be consumable
 *entirely* as written text with *everything* else being secondary
 unless absolutely required to convey the knowledge (review of music or
 video, for example). Always take a progressive approach to knowledge.
 First words, then *supplement* the words with images, audio, and video.
 In other words, prepare *everything* as if for someone with visual and
 hearing impairements. Aethsethic appeal is fine so long as it does not
 put the content out of reach for *anyone* unnecessarily.

 TODO          Stuff that remains to be done on this node. However,
 never leave a node with significant stuff on the TODO list *unless* you
 have set `Planned` as well to indicate that work is, in fact, in
 planned for this node. --------------
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Well that was more than I was planning on. But looks good. I'll need to
move it into the `/contrib/guide/metadata/` at some point. Feels good to
have it done though because now I don't have to change the *format* and
organization *yet again*. Having a more structured YAML-centric
knowledge base is definitely the way to go.

One thing that occurs to me writing up the `Planned` explanation is that
I can frame the content that needs to be written and allow very specific
contributions from others in the community who may be willing to flesh
out the rest of the node, which prompts me to add a `Contributors` list
to each node.

I did notice some redundancy between hyperlinks in the `Summary` and
entries in `SeeAlso` but I suppose that is fine since both fit on the
same screen when editing. Generally I think `SeeAlso` will tend to have
more in it since it will include opposing sources as well eventually.

`Categories` are going to be a little tricky, but probably worth it.

----------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Category   Description ----------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
`boost`    Just to get beginners going. Not necessarily remedial
content, but content that leaves a lot for the person to figure out on
their own. Even something like the `Join Us` welcome node is a boost
because it doesn't get into the particulars of how to join Discord and
such. If it did it would be a `walkthrough` instead. If it where just a
bunch of marketing speak tying to convince people to join then it might
be an `article` instead. (By the way, that stuff usually goes in the
root/cover node.) ----------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because of the nature of Pandoc templates there also needs to be a bunch
of mechanical properties that have nothing to do with the meta-data
itself. Since these are all related *specifically* to pandoc template
generation (or whatever other rendering format or rules) they *must*
begin with an underscore (`_`).

------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Tag                Description ------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
`_boost`,          Same as `Category` but required for simple Pandoc
boolean templates. `_article`, etc.           ------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

##  Tuesday, June 9, 2020, 9:44:32AM

I'm really glad I took some time to really dive into the new partials in
Pandoc 2.9.2. It is rather obvious at this point that the Pandoc team is
moving toward structured data documents with an emphasis on YAML. It's
amazing the conclusions like-minded people tend to make when they are
all working on the same problems because they are things that *they*
need. This was the *exact* reason that I created Hugonot and FADB back
in the day. I was obsessed with TOML and thought that it was the best
structured data format for such things. Clearly the right format is
YAML. I especially believe that now that I understand YAML linking and
types which allow YAML to move deeply into the database space, not just
configuration files. People hate on YAML for having significant
whitespace and normally I would agree, but this *isn't* a programming
language and readability and stylistic expression --- without
sacrificing consistency --- is really the dominant priority. Most of the
time when I encounter a YAML hater they have not even tried to use it
once --- typical.

So I am facing a real dilemma but I think I know the answer already. I
just have to write it down to process it. It might be more informative
to recount how I arrived at it.

The first few knowledge bases I created for skilstak.io, the Essential
Web, the Knowledge Net and SOIL were all focused on content contained in
Markdown. At first I forced myself to use only [Basic
Markdown](https://rwx.gg/lang/md/basic/) but even before that I was
using something from 2009 and didn't even  allow long single lines as
paragraphs. I would never have allowed "meta data" into the Markdown and
thought that mixing the two was a violation of separation of concerns. I
abhorred Jekyll for "front-matter" and having forever ruined the
cleanliness of *pure* Markdown. A lot of people don't know that having
YAML --- or anything --- at the front of a Markdown file was *never*
original Markdown and still is *not* a part of CommonMark even though
Pandoc and others wisely allowed it. I now have enough experience to
realize keeping the metadata with the Markdown is preferred because it
allows the file to be migrated rather easily. In fact, YAML specifically
allows other body text to come after the YAML section. So in a very real
way Pandoc Markdown files are, in fact, YAML files with Markdown in
them, which brings me to the main point.

Knowledge bases are *at least* half structured YAML data, and half free
form written content. But the more I factor out knowledge into automata
that can be aggregated in any number of ways --- in order to remove
redundancies --- the more I realize even a traditional concept like
chapters gives way let alone the whole notion of a book. Instead,
indexes that aggregate titles, links, and summaries make way more sense.
Taken to its full form you get dynamically composable documents that
either an author *or reader* can organize for themselves in a cafeteria
style approach to knowledge consumption.

This isn't hyperlinking but definitely builds on the idea. I abandoned
self-populating dynamic documents with the essential web. But I find
myself doing about the same things now as I create utilities for
aggregating the knowledge. The simplest form is an index. A bit more and
you get a long index with summaries. But it isn't much further to load
the whole knowledge node, statically or dynamically. This means that
books, guides, and such can be *compiled* in different ways much like
source code.

I am shaking my head at all the *massive* failures to accomplish similar
things, ReadTheDocs, GitBook, Wikis, and more. None of them successfully
understood and acted on the fundamental concept of factoring knowledge
into the most finite form and then aggregating them back *without regard
for any particular target format or rendering*. All of them assume
something about the final output.

I'm more that a little annoyed that humans haven't figured this out
already and created something to do this instead of having to create it.
But I take solace in the fact that the very brilliant people on the
Pandoc project seem to have arrived more at that conclusion than any
others with Pandoc 2.8 and partials. This allows the finite knowledge
form to be a YAML document with text fields that *include* Pandoc
Markdown. Conclusion? ***YAML all the knowledge.***

Seriously, JGM and the gang are just so fucking amazing on so many
levels. They bring practicality to everything they do rather than just
creating yet another over-engineered piece of shit like so many
knowledge solutions out there are that came from engineers (like
Restructured Text, Gatsby, Hugo, even Jekyll). The Pandoc team has
*authors* as their priority and *never* forgets who is using the
product. The others seem to always target *coders* instead, which is why
they continue to fail over and over again.

##  Wednesday, June 3, 2020, 7:54:48PM

My God the clarity! The more things change the more they stay the same.
The recent personal revelations regarding rwx.gg have overwhelmingly
confirmed that my gut was *always* right --- we're talkin' from the
beginning in 2013.

Way back then I was motivated internally to help people learn the Linux
terminal command line. But not only to learn it, to *start* with it and
*master* it. I now fully realize why that was in a way that I can put
words around. Linux --- and specifically the command line --- is the
best tool a curious, obsessed, technical autodidact can ever have at
their disposal. It is like the ultimate sandbox in which to play,
experiment, learn and create. No wonder Raspberry Pi Linux devices are
*so* huge and have become standard educational tools in places where
education is *actually* understood. Hell, even England has Linux and
Raspis included standard in their curriculum. (Not our fucking
disastrous dumpster fire of a country 'Merica over here.)

The point is. I was drawn to the Linux terminal for all the reasons I
wanted to share it: to provide the same learning opportunities for
others. Now I've come full circle back to eliminating *everything* but
learning how to learn followed by learning the Linux command line and to
code in Bash. *All* the rest builds from there. No more futzing around
with JavaScript even though it is valuable. The terminal gives *way*
more opportunities for far more projects.

##  Wednesday, June 3, 2020, 4:24:07PM

June 1st mark the end of the first *Linux Beginner Boost* experiment. I
decided to cut it short because people are clearly falling behind and
cannot keep up with the flipped, 8-hour a day approach. I tend to always
be optimistic about people's ability to commit. 

I'm not particularly sad about it. In fact, after touching base with a
few confidentially it is consistent with what they are feeling is
needed.

One good comment was from someone who had adopted such an autodidactic
approach to that whole thing that he became obsessed about learning C
immediately. He got the book I had reviewed and started on it
immediately. He was feeling a bit of guilt for not tuning into the
3-hour long videos every day because *he was spending that time coding
instead*. 

When I heard that comment I was immediately sold on my *original* focus,
which was *primarily* on motivating and helping others master the skills
of an autodidact. All of the rest is just curating the best resources
for people to pick and work through on their own as well as creating my
own resources in the form of knowledge apps and videos.

The result is a hyper-topic focus during each segment that then is
created into a YouTube video. This allows the videos to be processed in
asynchronous time, as has always been an advantage of videos. But it
also allows those particularly interested in a given topic to join me
live and chime in, asking questions, or whatever. This continue to
promote the community aspect of live-streaming that strongly
distinguishes it from regular YouTube videos.

This has meant yet another reorganization of the
[RWX.GG](https://rwx.gg){.spy} site.

##  Sunday, May 24, 2020, 12:00:11PM

Discovered [Kant's categorical
imperative](https://duck.com/lite?q=Kant's categorical imperative) today
thanks to
[[@green_jenny](https://twitch.tv/green_jenny)](https://twitch.tv/green_jenny).

"Act only according to that maxim whereby you can, at the same time,
will that it should become a universal law." ##  Sunday, May 17, 2020,
9:34:46AM

<http://linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu/> Just found this course from Carnegie
Melon University randomly since it is the second hit from the [The Linux
Command Line](https://rwx.gg/books/tlcl/) searchable title. Check out
the [first
lecture](http://linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu/Linux-Syllabus-S20A4.odt). I
can't lie. I laughed my ass off, then I cried a little at the exorbitant
costs of these *remedial* Linux courses. I hope colleges get the
collective kick in the ass that they need by this whole COVID thing.
College priorities have *long* been other things besides the best
education of their students.

##  Saturday, May 16, 2020, 5:57:12PM

As I have been working on <https://rwx.gg> and adding more content to it
I realized it would be great if there was a setting where users could
simply click on the title to take them to an DuckDuckGo.com search. It
wasn't to hard to implement, but the question of whether to use the
*lite* version or not came up. In Lynx it looks beautiful, Chrome not so
much. I decided to write some JavaScript that upgrades the URL to the
non-lite version in Chrome. It only runs when a browser has full
JavaScript support. It then occurred to me that the foundational
principle of *progressive* web apps is that they *progressively* take
advantage of the capabilities of the browser technology available. Then
it occurred to me what a *massive* fail our modern Web is based on this
foundational principle. All this unnecessarily broken React shit is
going to implode, I swear to God. At least my personal observance of the
*progressive principle* is beyond even what most are considering in the
graphic web browser world. We live in a world of absolutely clueless
asshole developers who both do not care about this principle and
couldn't even implement it properly if they did. At least I can do
something about it myself (and help others not be for *fucking*
clueless).

##  Saturday, May 16, 2020, 4:14:50PM

Just had a panic attack because suddenly Discord decided to echo back
everyone's voice to the point where it was really distracting. Tomorrow
is Coffee Talk and I was stressing out. I think it has something to do
with the reboot the other day and possibly the fact that I had to change
the input back to the mixer board (auto-picked the camera mic).

Turns out all that had to be fixed was a "Reset Voice Settings" in
Discord. 

##  Saturday, May 16, 2020, 1:22:51PM

Just talking casually with my wife about all this and got a rather nice
comment about my mentoring ability on the YouTube channel strongly
asking for more. My superpower is curating, communicating, and
mentoring, the rest is all secondary including the fact that I can code,
hack, and build systems. 

There is a character called Phillip in the *Travelers* show that I've
been watching who is like a walking historian and computer. The team
lead, McClairen, who is a self-proclaimed "languages guy" besides being
a natural communicator and leader. I find myself relating to both of
them a lot.

When I crack open the 1200 page text book "bible" of *Algorithms* all I
can think is, "why the fuck do I care?" Maybe that is why I switched
from Computer Science as my major after my first semester when I
discovered the humanities and language labs. Ironically the computer
technology in the languages lab was *far* superior to that in the
computer science lab. Why? Because it was *relevant* and being used. The
CS dweebs would laugh at the Macs there, but people were getting serious
shit done with them everyday, not debating the merits of C v.s. Pascal
as I would hear the lab attendants doing while suffering through CS101
bubble-sort Pascal programming and taking pencil-written tests for
coding. In fact, (I'm just gonna say it) I fucking *hate* infinitely
removed computer science shit. No one cares until it provides something
the world needs. Do we need people with that level of computer science
understanding? Hell yes! But what we need even more is people *using*
these amazing tools to produce software, information, and systems that
will push humanity forward. In fact, the amount of strictly trained CS
people the world needs is really not that great. But the world is
starving for people with practical knowledge who will push it forward. 

God knows there is enough work for thousands of people just to counter
the fucking idiocy of the JS-JS-JS crowd who would destroy the best
information sharing standards the world has ever known. The world needs
more people with common sense and the courage to speak truth to power
and idiocy and the skills to counter the horrible shit other morons are
making. That's my priority, not how to create the best possible linked
list.

##  Saturday, May 16, 2020, 9:21:00AM

I keep coming back to the conclusion that I just need to do one thing
*really* well (more than a bunch of things sort of good). That thing is
getting more people started earlier by training them to train themselves
and become tech autodidacts as soon as possible.

I imagine myself sort of at the starting line pushing as many people as
possible into tech fields with a *solid* foundation in Linux terminal
skills and coding. I can't run far with them all if I want to be there
to boost others.

The single most important thing I can do is get as many people as I can
started out right because no one else is doing it *at all*. The amount
of bad information and content on the Internet is staggering. If I do
nothing but fight against that for the rest of my life I'm sure I would
still be behind.

This simply means I have no time for data structures and algorithms at
anything but a *very* fundamental level, a level that remains of
practical use while providing a solid foundation for those wishing to
dive deeper at a formal university level.

##  Saturday, May 16, 2020, 9:11:03AM

I honestly cannot decide what is the best contribution I can make over
the next year so I'm reflecting on a few things:

* I'm a good communicator and apparently I motivate people. 
* I'm a decent programmer and system administrator, but not spectacular. 
* I'm a practical person. 
* I'm comparatively slow at everything, but thorough.
* I produce high-quality stuff, when I actually finish.
* I believe in simplicity.
* I feel like the fastest path productivity is paramount.
* I'm absolutely obsessed with the efficiencies of the terminal.
* I recognized a dire need for *good* content covering terminal and
system administrator *practical* knowledge, not what it takes to get
hired.
* I have no desire to learn data structures and algorithms because they
have no *practical* value when it comes to producing value most of the
time.
* I'm obsessed with Linux.
* I'm obsessed with shell scripting good-enough tools quickly.
* I'm obsessed with automation.
* I'm obsessed with revolutionizing education and credentialing.

I suppose considering the needs of the world is important as well to see
where they align:

* The world is imploding because its systems are broken.
* The world's systems are broken because people are not engaged.
* The world needs to be less distracted.
* The world needs more people producing real value and change.
* The world needs more protectors and engineers.
* The world is at war, a massive cyberwar that goes unseen.

## Wednesday, April 1, 2020, 4:15:31PM

Well doesn't [this](https://pastebin.com/v3K0we9d) smell like onions. ;)

## Monday, March 30, 2020, 12:30:03PM

Have a look at Dave Abrams talk on POP as it relates to OOP.

Also need to look for [OOP operating
systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_operating_system).
Still need to discover if any substantial operating systems have
survived that were written in pure OOP.

Also some [problems with
OOP](http://doc.cat-v.org/programming/bad_properties_of_OO) written in a
very formal way.

## Monday, March 30, 2020, 11:25:36AM

Finally! What looks like a half-decent [Golang
tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/go/index.htm). Doesn't look
like it covers `go mod` though (but none do, not even the books).

## Monday, March 30, 2020, 10:25:38AM

Need to look into Olive for video editing on Linux. And apparently
Blender is useful for video editing as well these days.

[tryhard-mode](rwxrob.mp4)

Came across the idea of having terminal/video themes based on the day.
Beginner day might be pleasant and with blue while TryHard day might
have red or tmatrix or something so that people can distinguish them
easily in the VODs.

Also need to look into YouTube-DL for downloading videos without need
for using the service. Also works for Twitch.

## Monday, March 30, 2020, 10:16:33AM

While demonstrating how to deploy a site from GitLab to Netlify I
realized that the `rw` tool really needs to have a CI/CD mode so it can
be used from Netlify and applied to published Pandoc Markdown so that
the HTML is generated on Netlify and not stored in the Git repo itself.
That would allow people to keep Markdown notes in GitLab or GitHub using
the online editor there without *any* need to run the renderer locally.
It comes at the cost, however, of performance and would not be very
sustainable for very large knowledge nodes.

## Monday, March 30, 2020, 10:01:54AM

Here's a case study from a group that ultimately realized capturing,
managing, sharing, and maintaining knowledge as Markdown source was a
[good
idea](https://caitiem.com/2020/03/29/design-docs-markdown-and-git/).

How to do run a TMUX within a TMUX:

1. start new tmux session
2. split pane
3. unset TMUX in pane 2 # this allows tmux in tmux
4. start new tmux session in pane
5. repeat 1-3
6. run tmux attach -t <target-session> # this is opens the shared
session


## Sunday, March 22, 2020, 11:19:58PM

Having fun with people on OverTheWire.org:


``` lsof -p PID lsof -n | grep pts htop                              #
discover echo -e "\e]11;rgb:ff/00/ff\007"  # color echo -e "\e(0"
# gibberish echo -e "\e[?1003h"               # gibberish echo -e
"\e[<Start>;<End>r"    # scroll region reset
# also reset

```

## Sunday, March 22, 2020, 4:13:59PM

Blows me away how well training for cybersecurity is for teaching people
to think and research becoming truly powerful autodidacts.

## Sunday, March 22, 2020, 12:29:27PM

Tips for mentoring online:

* No more than 2 hours per stream without 1 hour break.

## Sunday, March 22, 2020, 10:57:10AM

Alternatives to Discord to look into:

-------------- - - - - ---------------------------- Name         C S V P
Notes -------------- - - - - ---------------------------- Discord      x
x x x Zoom         x x x x Jabber       x x x o  Mumble       x x o o
"People have moved on from" Jitsi        x x x o TeamSpeak    x x o x
MatterMost   x x x o Matrix/Riot  x x x o Apache Licensed --------------
- - - - ----------------------------

* Mozilla has moved from IRC to Matrix * 

## Friday, March 20, 2020, 2:39:44PM

TIL that `/msg rwxrob /raid lastmiles` would raid `lastmiles` on Twitch
after the timeout lapsed.

## Friday, March 20, 2020, 10:06:31AM

After we made the name `rwx.gg` for the group of us working on capturing
the list of requirements for open credentials we had fun with what the
`gg` could stand for:

* good game
* git gud
* grep god
* gnarly gnome
* gnu guru
* go gypsy

"It's like the knowledge equivalent of 'right to repair'?"

## Thursday, March 19, 2020, 6:54:51PM

TIL that <https://prerender.io> is actually be used by absolutely stupid
people who care nothing for blind people and those using text-based
browsers. I have never been more motivated to destroy a site that right
now. These people have no idea about the amount of damage they are
causing the Web and frankly they don't care. 

This is not some idle rant from an aging dinosaur wanting to use a
text-based browser. This is objectively destroying our ability as humans
to search, archive, and access what we have come to love. 

There has never been a time that the README World Exchange is more
needed. Then the world of intelligent humans can be free from the
stupidity of those who would destroy the Web's basic purpose for the
sake of whatever JavaScript grants them.

## Thursday, March 19, 2020, 4:27:03PM

Just learning about KnowBots today. They are bots that collect knowledge
based on specified criteria and have been around a long time. I really
want to make `know.sh` into a service where people can configured their
own KnowBots.

## Tuesday, March 17, 2020, 10:48:14PM

PicoCTF has an amazing shell interface that can be used from anywhere
there is web access. However, some of the "challenges" require use of
the Unity game plugin. I don't have to say how much I disapprove of
that. 

Also the challenges are not in any particular order and have no notion
of advancement and building on previous skills (like OverTheWire.org).

Concluded the interface beyond that shell is just too kindergarten to
stand for one more second. They actually have you enter data into their
graphic UI, which is *required*. They have a great shell and then never
use it to submit any flags which all have to be submitted through their
graphic user interface (web page) no matter how simple they are.

I seriously disappointed because they setup the shell so perfectly and
then fucked it up by requiring Unity and a React web GUI to even submit
stuff.

## Tuesday, March 17, 2020, 5:14:26PM

I'm seriously disturbed by how completely behind most web development is
today. [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com) doesn't even
discuss JAMstack or development focused on APIs including GraphQL. I
want to get involved to help them because I love everything else about
their project, but I just can't given the amount of time to get
involved. I would rather provide input to a big project like that
instead of building all my own stuff though.

## Monday, March 16, 2020, 9:44:00PM

Wow the weeks are *flying* by. So glad I have the number of weeks in the
directory name for the blog week.

So with the Corona virus shutting all organized gatherings down, like
completely, this has been a good chance to test everything over Discord
sessions. So far Discord turns out to actually be *better* than in
person. Some people still feel more comfortable learning in person if
they they are objectively better learners over Discord. Talk about
conditioning. The school system has everyone thinking you *have* to be
at a place to learn. The hard reality is that all of these people are
being conditioned to *not* learn without the crutch that is the system.
It's actually hurting them.

## Sunday, March 15, 2020, 1:08:37PM

So streaming has overall been a blast, but there is one serious
down-side. A certain minority think they are experts on everything "you"
should do. Yet they don't have anything of their own. "You need
experience" yet they don't have a single stream or YouTube video to draw
from to back up their authoritative bullshit. 

Thank God for the ban function, which reminds me I need to figure out
how to do it from IRC.

The only way to deal with these types of entitled assholes is to
instantly ban them. I don't care if they are immature gamers who don't
know better. They need a consequence. "What the fuck!? How dare you ban
me? I'm just trying to help."

Go fuck yourself.

I have a zero tolerance policy for ingratitude. There are a ton of other
things I could do with my free time besides provide $100/hour private
consulting content for free on Twitch. I could be making $150/hour as a
CTO or tech consultant IRL. So when some pleeb tells me what to do with
my stream without even offering a single thank you for the time and
money I've sacrified without any agenda and not even seeking advertising
sponsorships that's the only appropriate response.

I hate to make this conclusion, but I keep running specifically into
gamers who fall victim to this phenonemon.

## Saturday, March 14, 2020, 6:10:13PM

Woah, I just found a legitimate use for the style tags from HTML5 that
are attributes *instead* of CSS. The following works in a text browser
but does *not* work with CSS:

```html

<th align=left colspan=3>Weekdays</th>

```

## Saturday, March 14, 2020, 5:42:10PM

I'm reminded that in the `rw` tool I need to be sure and detect a
localized `template.html` file rather than use the site-wide one
automatically --- especially now that YAML can be combined with partials
to provide very powerful static view renderings. This essentially turns
every README subdirectory into its own stand-alone page as needed while
allowing them to share common resources for maximum sustainability.

## Saturday, March 14, 2020, 1:04:26PM

Been suffering through "NOVICE mode" in Lynx and forgot to change it to
"ADVANCED" which clears all the crap at the bottom.

## Saturday, March 14, 2020, 1:01:05PM

God I LOVE Twitch community? Solved a stupid annoying thing I have been
working on for years:

```tmux

bind-key -n C-y send-prefix

```

This allows you to use a different prefix (`C-y`) for nested sessions
(TMUX *or* screen). Still need to test it though.

## Friday, March 13, 2020, 1:58:12PM

So here's another take on my selection of callables (things that can be
called from the command line) based on increasing needs and depth:

1. Alias
1. Exported Bash Function
1. POSIX Shell Script
1. Bash Shell Script
1. Perl
1. (Ruby / Python)
1. Go
1. Rust
1. C
1. Assembly

## Friday, March 13, 2020, 1:11:13PM

Quickly compared `links` to `lynx` and the Unicode support in `links` is
still far too sketch (and yes the annoying exit confirmation is still
the default). The old `lynx` has been updated to be better even though
it still as a lot of old bloat for unsupported stuff used in the 70s and
80s. The end. Lynx is your friend.

## Thursday, March 12, 2020, 9:05:23PM

Realized earlier today that I had not blocked any time on the schedule
for coding, only the other stuff. That can't be. So I divided up
Saturday night into two blocks for Go and Rust development and Sundays
just for Shell. The C and Assembly can come during the OSCP time. The
Python and Web can be during the G0CT time.

## Thursday, March 12, 2020, 5:39:13PM

I've decide that the CTF games will only be OverTheWire.org until I
finish them all since that is where most beginners will start and I want
to be able to nudge them as needed at any time. So anytime new OTW
content comes out that will take priority. Otherwise HTB Pro will be
priority during the three OCSP focused days of the week.

## Thursday, March 12, 2020, 4:18:31PM

So I have concluded that I *do* want to make specific times for the
following specific topics:

1. RWX Cafe (Random Tech Talk)
1. G0CT Study Group
1. OSCP Study Group 
1. Mentors Guild
1. Hacker CTF Games (OTW, HTB, etc.)
1. 1-1 Private Mentoring
1. Bash Scripting 
1. Go Programming
1. Rust Programming

Twitch needs to add a Hacker CTF category.

What if we had entirely remote CTFs that could be monitored on Twitch,
etc?

By the way, I love the word "nudge" from the OffSec world.

## Thursday, March 12, 2020, 4:03:35PM

Should I alternate day for G0CT and OSCP focused times? One day would be
just for beginners working on G0CT and the other would be for only those
more advanced working on the OSCP specifically.

This also has me thinking that maybe I need to carve out time to talk
with other mentors and educators about helping other people learn. Next
time I get to talk to strager or iscreman25 I'll have to ask them.

Eventually I need to have the schedule for G0CT very specific. But I
really don't need to sweat the specific details details because I can
just change the current topic and most people will be watching the
YouTube videos that result anyway.

There are lots of other questions about making videos, where they should
be published and when. My initial feeling on this is to not push
anything to Twitch, only Youtube, and to keep Twitch for live streaming.
The highlights on Twitch would then be just to redirect to the stuff on
YouTube. YouTube is more sustainable and discoverable for overall
content.

I'm feeling uncomfortable that it's been almost a week since I have
published a YT video, but all this stuff has to be worked out to save
time. For example, had I thought through this just a bit better, I might
not have wasted time on unnecessary videos.

## Wednesday, March 11, 2020, 8:23:03PM

Tonight I will be going back to two hours of OverTheWire.org since that
is the prime time most people in America are online. Then I'll just push
back waking up.

And in other news, Imma hack Lynx to not waste the bottom line. It's not
worth using one of the broken new text browsers instead. (Although I do
need to look at the latest `links` again to see where it's at.)

## Wednesday, March 11, 2020, 7:18:28PM

Just happened on a fun term "break-in room" instead of "escape room".
The latter is well known and popular. But what if we made the opposite
and used lock picking and hacking in the physical world? I bet it would
do well.

## Wednesday, March 11, 2020, 6:54:30PM

Can you use nothing but the magic wand `!!` in `vi` to replace these
with their outputs?. Can you tell what program to use?

``` for i in {1..10};do echo Item. $i; done [print(f"Item {x}.") for x
in range(1,11)] (234234 * 3423423) / 234 ```

Can you guess the output of each?

Yeah, you probably don't need a plugin. Just use your shell. It's the
best `vi` extension ever made.

## Wednesday, March 11, 2020, 4:21:26PM

TIL that the lag from not restarting your stream every few hours or so
is insane. Might be from the quality of the watcher. Will have to test.

## Tuesday, March 10, 2020, 8:22:34PM

God damn this Go [`yamllinter`](https://github.com/denkhaus/yaml) is
fast.

## Tuesday, March 10, 2020, 2:19:01PM

"Crowd-source Credentials" "Open-sourced Credentials." "Open
Credentials"

Need a YAML/JSON data structure to encapsulate the open credential
requirements.

## Monday, March 9, 2020, 7:26:52PM

So looks like <https://overthewire.org> doesn't like having spoilers
posted but I don't feel like I'm "posting" spoilers to be picked up and
found. Anyone can decide not to watch and since I've disabled VODs it's
just me and some friends figuring things out without giving anything
away. It's really no different than someone being with me and just
hanging out working on it.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 8:15:29PM

Alias -> Exported Function -> POSIX Shell Script -> Bash Shell Script ->
Compiled

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 3:10:01PM

Twitch wins again!. New friend on twitch just shared this ext-based
pastebin alternative <https://ix.io>. I am in fucking terminal heaven
over here. I simply cannot put a value on the number of amazing insights
I have had over the last month on Twitch.

I am so fucking blown away by how useful this is. You can create a
completely anonymous post from the command line by just sending a file
to the `ix` command after creating a simple `~/bin/ix` script like this:

```sh

#!/bin/sh argsorin "$*" | curl -F 'f:1=<-' ix.io

```

The `argsorin` is a useful script I made some time ago to intelligently
detect arguments and smoosh them together or read from stdin for here
doc syntax and stuff:

```sh

#!/bin/sh

argsorin () { buf="$*" if [ -n "$buf" ]; then echo -n "$buf" return fi
while IFS= read -r line; do buf=$buf$line done echo "$buf" }

echo $(argsorin $*)

```

Here's a simple example:


``` ix echo hello world http://ix.io/2dLp curl ix.io/2dLp echo hello
world

```

I usually write this stuff as functions so they can be cut and paste
easily if people want to just incorporate into their own code rather
than invoking a sub-process just for the command.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 2:40:42PM

Need to take a look at <https://liveoverflow.com> which
[fox_maccloud](https://twitch.tv/fox_maccloud)  is recommending for
picking up memory buffer overflow vulns.

Also need to get a resources wiki-ish page ready to hold all these
references.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 1:18:05PM

TIL you can add `-x` to `bash` to cause it to output the content of the
script as it is being executed. No more multiple `echo` statements.
Huzzah!

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 1:13:46PM

> Zsh, or Z shell, was first released by Paul Falstad back in 1990 *when
> he was still a student* at Princeton University.

See that continue to be a problem. People make things during college
that should never have existed and somehow people adopt them as
standards. The simple `vimtutor` (which is totally broken) is just one
such example.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 1:11:20PM

There's something miraculous about purging the angst of hitting horrible
technology (that I cannot legally hack despite my initial impulse).
[Shameful Shitty Sites](/shameful-shitty-sites/) is one way to deal with
it. Who knows maybe it will pull up in an Internet search one day.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 12:12:02PM

Still feeling the pain of that major burn setting up integration of Bash
command functions with applications that must call them from the
`exec()` system call (rendering them useless). I still feel they are far
more useful than aliases and should be used for anything that will be
called from the shell. In short, the best way to stay good is simply
think of them as shell extensions, period. Going too far and thinking of
them as commands will eventually trip you up (as it did me with TMUX
status).

The interesting question is then what language --- specifically which
shell version --- to write when creating actual command *scripts*. To me
the answer is pretty obvious: POSIX shell. These days the closet shell
to POSIX is `dash` without question. It is behind `/bin/sh` on all
Debian systems and is *wicked* fast. Since `dash` is already loaded into
memory (like `bash`) there is a good chance the interpreter loading time
is saved as well (which is *not* the case with Python or Perl).

So the moral of this sad tale is keep your functions as extensions of
your shell and write anything else as Dash scripts in `~/bin`. In doing
so we keep everyone happy because `/bin/sh` might be pretty much
anything on a given system and because your command scripts are all
POSIX there is never any fear of them not running on something.

Unfortunately this means that learning the shitty sub-process intensive
approaches are still required to maintain POSIX compliance. (Apparently
the world isn't ready for extreme efficiency like that.) If you *do*
want it, and don't particularly care about portability, just write it in
Bash and be happy, but not until you *need* a Bash-ism like good regular
expressions or avoiding a subproc monstrosity. After all POSIX was made
for a *completely* different world with different constraints. We don't
use many dynamically linked libraries now, for example. Everything seems
to be into static linking, and usually for good reason. POSIX isn't
dead, but it sure isn't required like it was anymore either.

As for me? Everything starts as a command function until I need it from
another program (`exec()` syscall). Then it gets ported to a `/bin/sh`
POSIX script. Then if I even have to make one subproc I change `/bin/sh`
to `/bin/bash` instead and live happily ever after. The end.

In most cases someone coming across `/bin/bash` who is using Ksh or Zsh
*should* just be able to change the name. But that's no longer my
problem.

## Sunday, March 8, 2020, 7:37:08AM

While working on my TMUX status line and realizing that my exported bash
command functions were not usable using the `#(status)` syntax I did
some digging and found [this
information](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35522187/how-to-export-a-function-from-tmux-conf).

This really had me challenging this new way of managing what I had
previously managed as a collection of stuff in `~/bin`. In fact, it has
caused me to seriously consider when to even use them.

Sometime in November I started to rewrite my Bash configuration scripts.
I noted the speed of exported command functions to be ridiculously
faster than invoking shell scripts instead. So being the freak I am when
it comes to efficiency I ported most of my utility commands into command
functions instead that are available to be run at any moment using the
`export -f myfunc` syntax, which is *not* available on anything else.

Not only are command functions much faster than actual command scripts,
they are far easier to maintain since they all go in some version of a
`bashrc` file which can be easily distributed.

I have just read all about "ShellShock" also ("Bashdoor") which happened
in 2014. I'm completely and totally blown away by the scope of that
vulnerability and how I have inadvertently fallen directly into a
horrible trap. I now have to help others avoid it and responsibly
describe how I have made a very understandable mistake to use command
functions *at all* (despite all the shit I say about zsh not supporting
them). There's actually a *very* good reason not to (or at least there
was). By adding on to the end of the exported environment variable
containing the command function hackers created the biggest shell
exploit in history. The fact that this bug went for so long without
being caught is unfathomable. Frankly it is a huge embarrassment for the
Bash team. Everything has been patched, but no wonder so many Linux
people have avoided them like the plague despite their utility. 

Does this means I will be converting to `zsh`? No way. But it does mean
that creating a `~/bin` directory (as I have done for more than two
decades) is *still* the best way to manage all your utilities.

The single best criterion as to whether something should be a Bash
command function or an actual command script is whether or not it will
every be used by anything but bash. So, for example, creating command
functions for stuff that is frequently paired with `!!` in vi is fine
since it always shells out to Bash, but any of those functions are to be
used from anything *but* Bash it might not be so useful.

This has me still horribly conflicted between the modularity and
convention of the `~/bin` approach versus the decidedly *only* Bash
approach of using command functions.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 2:54:43PM

So looks like there is color emoji support in Alacritty in the latest
version by providing a font "fallback" for them (instead of the black
and white versions). Very helpful people on the IRC channel.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 1:34:04PM

Been reminded recently of the importance of learning a command-based
editor like `ed` (after recently talking about Rob Pike and his famous
"ed is the only editor you need" statement) is the *only* editor you
often can use when you don't have visual mode after hacking into a
system through a service that does not support a full TTY. I remember
doing that with Metasploitable some years ago for our Summer camp and
being like, "Hummm, so there actually is very real value in learning
`ed`." Now I'm trying to determine if `ex` (the successor to `ed`) is
just as good. I notice that it is now combined with the man page for
`vi` so not sure.

I want to create a simulation of a situation where `ed` is all you get
and how to do that. I think something as simple as a basic script tied
to `nc` should do the trick, sort of a local, hackable service just to
simulate lack of a full terminal environment.

In fact, a friend from the Twitch stream shared the fun fact that Joy
gave up on `vi` because there were so many different versions and just
used `ed` instead. `vi` didn't even start in visual mode by default. He
added that a couple months later after noticing that nobody was using it
as a line editor. Apparently there's a whole
[video](http://xahlee.info/comp/interview_with_bill_joy.html) and
[another](https://www.theregister.co.uk/Print/2003/09/11/bill_joys_greatest_gift/)
on the history of it all.

(God I love having a stream community.)

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 1:29:18PM

Out of curiosity I actually looked up how `sed` suddenly had in-place
editing. Turns out it has been in the GNU version the whole time, which
is why I always used `perl -p -i -e` instead because I knew it would be
on *every* UNIX system, not just GNU stuff. But given the widespread use
of Linux now I suppose using `sed -i` is good to know.

It's not unlike things like `mkdir -p /some/long/path` which is
unsupported in any of the original POSIX `mkdir` versions (another thing
GNU added). I use it all the time now, but knowing when and how stuff
changed is something of an obsession.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 12:41:19PM

Gabe brought in his new Razer Blade 15" 2019 is reporting on it. I'm
completely convinced it's the go-to system for most pentesting and
forensics (not to mention best gaming laptop). He had problems initially
with suspension from screen closing (because he installed the default
Mint kernel on 19.3 ISO was too old) upgrading the kernel fixed it.

The chassis is the most solid I've encountered and I *love* the
keyboard, sturdy and chicklet-y. I *destroy* keyboards so that is a bare
requirement. Definitely my next purchase when ready to go mobile again
for everything. My (bork) XPS will have to do for now.

Gabe says make sure to get it from Amazon since price and warranty is
better. He bought the four year coverage including accidents.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 12:26:40PM

GitLab *sucks* when viewed with Lynx. Need to open a ticket.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 12:23:12PM

TIL that screen now has splitting panes. The question came from a
long-time screen user about why he should consider TMUX. A bunch of
things came to mind, but these are best summarized
[here](https://superuser.com/a/279167). The author left off the
customization of vim bindings for navigation between panes and resizing
them, which I could not live without.

I did find it extremely validating that the `screen` default bindings
for splitting us the same exact keys I have set in my
[tmux.conf](https://gitlab.com/rwxrob/config/-/blob/master/tmux.conf)
file (rather than the bork defaults).

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 11:13:57AM

Back on standard Xterm colors. There is something about it that is
beyond "retro" feel. The colors are very solid. The contrasts are
amazing on any device at any size and dimensions. And people see what
they will likely see when they pull up a terminal for the first time on
Raspberry Pi or whatever. Plus asquiiquarium looks as expected.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 10:28:07AM

Last night someone showed us a video about a seriously mentally ill
genius who created their own compiler and operating system and
everything that goes with it including some really crazy graphics. At
first it was intriguing but by the end I was sad and pissed for having
seen it. I know the person mentioning it wanted to explore the
possibility of making an OS and was pointing out the extreme
intelligence involved, but the video seemed to linger and dwell on this
person's descent into madness for no other purpose than to
sensationalize the drama. I suppose capturing the story is one thing,
but showing all the videos of his worst moments crossed the line. I
didn't need that. It triggered my disgust with people who laugh or just
overly sensationalize any mental illness. I think I might of hurt some
feelings without meaning to but it's not okay. Mr. Robot deals with that
topic so perfectly.

## Saturday, March 7, 2020, 1:04:02AM

So today's OTW had a lot of SSL port stuff in it that was nice to see
because last time I did anything with port connections and enumerations
was in the 90s (other than for fun here). The combination of `openssl`
and `s_client` is absolutely amazing. It takes all the hassle out of the
SSL/TLS complexity when connecting to ports allowing connections to SSL
enabled ports without having to negotiate all the cert shit. Here's one
to remember:


``` openssh s_client -ign_eof -connect <host>:<port>

```

It is the same as plain old `nc` of old. It waits around to see what you
type in and otherwise passes the whatever you paste in. The `-ign_eof`
holds the connection open for interactive sessions. Looks like you need
this and cannot just pipe to stdin as you can with `nc` but I'll
research that more later.

## Friday, March 6, 2020, 10:13:32PM

Turns out the sound corruption is from OBS Studio. The fix is to exit
OBS completely and the app using sound (usually the web browser) and
then restart the app and restart OBS.

## Friday, March 6, 2020, 7:56:55PM

With all the focus on pentesting it has really warped my sense of
software development. For example, learning everything there is to learn
about CSS is simply not needed. Creating the G0CT has been one of the
best thing for [SkilStak]{.spy} because it has really forced me to focus
on *only* those things that have very broad application to all
foundational technology careers. For example, there is no need to learn
Vue or React, only vanilla JavaScript with a *solid* understanding of
the DOM and focus on HTTP (along with other networking).

This is coming up now because even though I stand by the recommendation
to get Jennifer's Learning Web Design book most of it is irrelevant to
the G0CT. It has such solid information in it that everyone should
*eventually* work through the whole thing. But I plan on getting very
specific about the sections and projects that are required just to get a
good initial understanding leading to the certificate evaluated project
of creating a personal/professional web site from scratch with the
minimal requirements:

* Responsive
* Semantic (justify *every* div)
* Pandoc Markdown Generated

The title of the sub-cert, Knowledge Content Creation, also conveys the
goal of it better. Sure understanding cross-site scripting
vulnerabilities will require a lot more JavaScript understanding later,
but not to get started.

In short the G0CT should equally provide a foundation to all of the
following fast-growing career paths:

* Full-Stack PWA Developer
* Senior Software Engineer
* Systems Applications Developer
* Site Reliability Engineer
* Machine Learning Engineer
* Embedded Systems Engineer
* Offensive Security Professional

As I go though the vetting process for all the content I already have
and decide what stays and what goes or gets put into another category or
cert I'll be applying this check list to make sure whatever is there
applies to everything.

Earlier I was struggling a little because I had "Web Developer" in the
list, which does *not* require Linux and command line skills beyond
basic navigation. But a Full-Stack PWA Developer needs much, much more
--- including a full understanding of Bash scripting, HTTP, and the use
of `curl`.

## Wednesday, March 4, 2020, 4:46:42PM

Rather conflicted at the moment about this interpreted language to pick
back up again. All of the following are supported by `weechat` *and* are
prevalent in the Metasploit database:

* Python
* Perl
* TCL
* Ruby
* Lua

They are all mandatory languages at some point to learn. The question
which do you choose when all are available.

I did find it interesting that there is no Node in any of them.

I think, as I concluded earlier, that I have to get over my "bad
breakup" (Brian Cantrill's term) with Python and just accept that it is
a required *secondary* language to maintain. Here's all the
justification for that:

* Massive user base and only getting larger.
* Machine learning (`numpy`, Tensorflow, etc).
* Python will always be the darling of scientists.
* Python is *in* everything already.
* Pentesting uses a lot of Python.
* Python Fabric has no substitute.
* Python data structures seriously dominate.
* Python C stubbing it best in class (for interpreted).

Have to look at `nim` as well. But as a general purpose language Python
is mandatory learning for the G0CT certification, there is no doubt of
that (as much as I might hate that to be true).

## Wednesday, March 4, 2020, 12:57:52PM

Discovered today that the pretty graph that shows the volumes of a sound
stream is called a VU meter. Turns out there is a *really* good one for
terminal, which means, of course, that I had to [get
it](https://github.com/dpayne/cli-visualizer). God I love what is
possible with full color terminal support all over the place now.

![CLI Visualizer](cli-visualizer.gif)

## Tuesday, March 3, 2020, 8:55:32PM

For the first time I actually miss Arch Linux. It definitely has more
up-to-date packages and shit I want to use (`weechat`) is waaaay behind
on the standard Mint distro, which is to be expected but still annoying.

This means I have to make a decision, leave Mint and go down the Arch
rabbit hole just for my own stuff while maintaining a healthy
relationship with Mint so that I can help beginners get started on it,
or keep Mint and suffer through extremely old stuff. 

There is no doubt that the core Debian team is on top of things, but the
Arch team is where all the edge energy is from the Linux development
community. That's a given.

I'm torn because I want to join that community (again) and to be there
you really just have to have the distro they have decided to use, which
seems to be Arch at the moment.

I'm inclined to put Arch on my main system, but doing that would mean
that anyone on the stream who is just beginning would maybe be misled to
go with Arch before they are ready for it. 

I had considered just using a VM or streaming a Kali system next to me
(which I'll have to do anyway for OSCP prep). It is Debian after all.
But that has all the stuff I need on it already and I would not be
showing how to do installs much. I can give this some time and see how
much Kali I'll actually be using all the time. I could make Arch my main
distro but usually have it set to Kali for most work for the OSCP prep
stuff and even treat Kali like more than just Kali. 

I wonder how well a Kali Linux system would stream. If it streamed well
I could set that as the main system since almost *all* my work will be
using tools that are on it and showing what those tools are. It makes
sense to consider how easy it would be to setup a stream from it. It's
likely that the problem without outdated packages and not being on the
edge of Linux development will also affect Kali, possibly more in fact.

I have some time to think this through. I could use this capture card
and use a projector to have more than one CPU associate with a single
screen essentially and could switch back and forth between them just
with OBS.

## Tuesday, March 3, 2020, 6:14:41PM

WeeChat has definitely sent me down a great rabbit hole. In fact, I no
longer find even the slightest interest to participate in any chat that
is *not* IRC. I completely understand why the "1337" hackers only use
IRC, it is so ridiculously more productive than any graphic chat
application, that much is clear only after about a hour playing with
`weechat`. I so *so* glad Twitch has built everything on it. I could not
be more pleased with their decision.

Time to go find some more Freenode channels.

## Tuesday, March 3, 2020, 5:23:29PM

I absolutely love that `weechat` is entirely written in C. I've decided
that is the first thing I'm going to learn in the IRC land. It support
Python and Perl plugins, and frankly to become a seriously good
Pentester everyone should learn Python, Perl, Ruby, and TCL as well as
Bash even if Bash can do everything all the others can. People need to
at least be able to read the others at least since so much that is
written in the Metasploit database is one of those languages as well as
plugins for different hacker-y things like `weechat`, which is really
the new BitchX.

## Tuesday, March 3, 2020, 5:09:56PM

Python is officially back in the house. Python most perfectly fits that
place of making significant software that is not yet worthy of a full
port to a statically compiled language. It is the best for data analysis
and it's dominance of systems automation with Fabric means that it will
retain its position as a systems glue language despite Go's supremacy.
It is a very small niche, to be sure, but enough justify learning it for
any G0CT.

The dilemma I have is to bring Perl back in addition to Python. It is
still a very powerful language, far *more* powerful than Python
specifically for pentesting. Things can be done so much more quickly in
Perl.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 8:39:45PM

After hacking my way into <https://www.hackthebox.com> (don't forget the
`www`) and watching the earlier OSCP guy's video it has become clear
that there is another mid level between G0CT and OSCP that involves
everything needed to even create an account on hackthebox. It requires
significant JavaScript knowledge as well as HTML and HTTP and base64
encoding. Those are not beginner things in the slightest.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 5:34:51PM

This [guy](https://youtu.be/kdobdnQ2sGw?t=132) says that his "report"
was 240 pages of markdown and screenshots converted to PDF. So yeah,
knowledge source management is a *critical* dependency skill in all of
this. Love that this validates including it in G0CT as well as
everything with the README World Exchange.

Good [advice](https://youtu.be/kdobdnQ2sGw?t=291) on the "memory buffer
overflow" machine:

> "Setup your payload and shell code so you can go back to it, not you
> ... That way there's no need for them to regenerate shell code.
> There's no need for them to create their rhosts and rport. Make it
> one-way so you can callback to it, not to you."

The callback is the thing running that grants access. He's saying to put
all that code on the remote machine so that the overflow code calls that
and not something that initiates a call for that code from your local
system. That's pretty obvious stuff because that is exactly what a
backdoor is, opening something you can login to the remote target.

Reading that the term "enumeration", which has a rather specific meaning
in the software world just means capturing your discovery results as the
initial phase.

::: Enumeration is used to gather the below
 * Usernames, Group names
 * Hostnames
 * Network shares and services
 * IP tables and routing tables
 * Service settings and Audit configurations
 * Application and banners
 * SNMP and DNS Details

Enumeration can be performed on the below.
  1. NetBios Enumeration
  2. SNMP Enumeration
  3. LDAP Enumeration
  4. NTP Enumeration
  5. SMTP Enumeration
  6. DNS Enumeration
  7. Windows Enumeration
  8. UNIX /Linux Enumeration :::

Enumeration is more than nmapping, it is "enumerating" all the
information available from a given port. So SNMP has a *lot* of
information about the system (`snmpwalk`). 

The fact that "enumeration" is considered a basic foundational skill for
OSCP implies there is a *lot* of base learning required far beyond what
I was planning for G0CT. I happen to know a lot of it, but someone who
hasn't been a system admin or doing any patch auditing is going to
really feel left in the dark on that stuff. Something like G0CP -> ????
-> OSCP that would contain all the material from lpic-0, klcp, lpic-1,
network+, a+, security+, but just not suck so badly.

Apparently this guy "took a lot of breaks" which is going to be really
important for me. At least the test is from the safest place you can
find and not their testing center. Instead of "try harder" he suggests:

> "Take a break and try your process again."

I really love that. Trying harder means you'll just produce cortisol and
it will block you from seeing what will be obvious to someone else or
yourself after you've take a good enough break.

I love that he didn't use Metasploit at all. I fucking hate it. It's a
script-kiddy thing.

Also he says don't waste time on kernel exploits even though the kernel
versions are old because they are not intended to be the main vectors.

He finished in eight hours but he sounds like he was really prepared.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 5:21:23PM

So the first thing I learned about the OSCP process is that it takes up
to a month just to get your packet and lab access after your
application, and another full month before your request to take the
actual test goes through. That means there is at least two months of lag
time for those who might not even need that long to do everything (which
I definitely will).

This means that there is no way I could reasonably hit the OSCP by
DefCon, instead DefCon will be an amazing way to tap the minds of a
bunch of people who have received theirs and potentially record them to
share with others. If anything DefCon is sort of a mandatory expense (to
me) to covering as much as I can during the process and documenting it
for everyone.

I also need to spend most of my free video watching time watching all
the others who have received their OSCP and start cataloging them.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 5:11:36PM

Can I just say how fucking happy I am to be *free* of concern for
teaching and keeping up on web shit. The only thing I ever want to learn
about it is how to hack it. It has created such a level of stress for so
many years. It is a good skill and creating a JAMstack site is required
learning, but all the rest? Fuck no. I'm done. It's so completely
liberating. Mostly I'm just happy to be rid of the entire web
development --- specifically JavaScript community --- which is filled
with horrendously horrible human beings.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 4:51:42PM

Perhaps the coolest thing about the OSCP is that it fundamentally
*forces* you to build your continuous learning skills and creativity.
This is exactly what terrifies people because they haven't been taught
to do research and learn on their own. They've had their creativity
beaten out of them by the school system. The OSCP demands high technical
skills, but more than anything it requires solid research and
self-evaluation skills.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 4:32:28PM

Found a great [OSCP
resource](https://niiconsulting.com/checkmate/2017/06/a-detail-guide-on-oscp-preparation-from-newbie-to-oscp/)
that I think does a good job covering what people should expect. It was
interesting that Assembly and memory buffer overflows are a part of the
OSCP. That definitely puts the OSCP in the category of not-for-noobs. In
fact, unless you have done some C coding I have a hard time recommending
it to anyone.

I found the resource while looking for the *required* languages for the
exam. Obviously having a really solid handle on shell scripting is
required (which I have), but specifically I'm wondering if they have a
Python bias anywhere in their requirements.

One thing mentioned is the amount of research required to complete the
55 labs of different difficulties. It made me smile that I can research
faster than 99.9% of the rest of the population with Lynx and the
techniques I've developed over the last 20 years. Hacking is really
about knowledge more than skill. It confirms my selection of content for
the G0CT I'm creating. Reading the overview of OSCP prep is also good to
make sure I have all the building blocks leading up to any tech career,
but specifically for someone headed to the OSCP. Linux, for example, is
not fundamentally required to become a web developer. But it is for
pentesting for sure.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 4:15:09PM

I'm so glad that my subscribers went down by two. I know that is a weird
thing to say, but the reason is because it means that people are
self-filtering, which is great. Here are the people who leave:

* Those who think setting up a ton of desktop-specific hotkeys is
actually a good idea.

* Those who think game development is the only thing that matters.

* Those who think for some reason that old guy with the beard has
nothing important to say.

* Those who are offended by my opinions but unwilling or unable to
challenge me on them even though I'm *very* open to new ideas.

* Those who have no fucking problem sucking every second of my time
online without offering anything in return to those in the room.

There. That's all I needed to get off my chest. Now on to stuff that
matters.

## Monday, March 2, 2020, 11:18:03AM

Did about an hour of research on [SourceHut.org](https://sourcehut.org)
and ultimately concluded the following:

* Obsessed with FSF in the best way.
* Great principle engineers with C and Go in their main profiles.
* 64% Python Flask implementation, 3% Go.
* REST API with no public plans for GraphQL.
* No Twitter account.
* Highly transparent business with financials etc.
* SSH into containers used in CI.
* Mercurial support.
* Minimal search ability.

![Source Hut Languages](srht-languages.png)

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 2:30:46PM

The key to making this work is not going to deep into any of the things
covered:

* Go up to and including concurrency and modules but not further.
Capstone is a multi-service virtual agent tied to Twitch, Discord,
Twitter, and GitLab.

* Bash capstone will be a fully realized `bashrc` in a `config` repo
containing prominent examples of everything Bash 4+ has to offer
including stuff using `curl`, `jq`, and no `sed`, `awk`, `tr`, or any
other ancient shell sub-process shit.

One thing that will be rather sensitive to deal with is that the G0CT
will take the Mr. Miyage approach. In blunt terms, my way or nothing.
That does not mean I'm not open to challenge and progress and change,
only that I will require everyone to master the way I outline first and
then decide how they would like to modify it. In other words, no
`emacs`, no `zsh`, no Arch, my `tmux.conf`, and so on. This will be a
bit difficult and will no doubt cause a lot of controversy but frankly I
don't give a fuck. You want my cert, you do it my way. The end. :) Since
everything is creative commons people will be able to essential fork my
cert material and make their own based on it. But I will trademark the
G0CT so that people do not misrepresent this stuff.

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 1:17:38PM

I'm focusing on the following areas at [SkilStak]{.spy}:

1. Ground-Zero Certified Technologist (G0CT)
2. Offensive Security Professional (OSCP,OSWE,OSCE,OSWP,OSEE)

That's it. Anything outside of those is not something I will spend any
time on. I will assist people during their sessions with their own
projects outside of this scope as much as possible. But I (and SkilStak)
will not spend one second focused on producing or researching content
for *anything* outside of this scope. This focus should rocket-propel
the production of good and current content over the next year, hopefully
before DefCon in August.

The question becomes, "Got your G0CT yet?" 

If the answer is no then you have really no business going further for
any of the Offensive Security stuff. But once you do have a G0CT you can
charge down the Offensive Security specialization path (or any other of
your choosing outside of SkilStak).

The next question is, "Do you have a degree?" 

If not, then WGU Bachelor's in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
is my recommendation and what I'll cover (even though I won't be getting
one myself.

After you complete WGU (or if you already have *any* degree) go
*straight* for the Offensive Security certifications.

This is good to be coming up now because I have been redoing
[skilstak.io](/https://skilstak.io) and will change it to be on this
focus. Ironically I've come full circle back to a "stack of skills" with
a specific purpose: to provide a solid foundation on which to build
everything else.

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 12:41:41PM

Loving that the newest iteration of content is focused entirely on
personal empowerment that applies to *anyone*, not just people going for
tech occupations eventually. For example, Knowledge Content Creator
(KNOW) is *not* web development but includes *simple* web development as
a part of the self-publishing process. Adding Self-Orienting Continuous
Learner (SELF) is also a huge win. I *finally* have my finger on that
sort of ephemeral thing that so many take away from SkilStak without
formal training in it, although to be fair many come to me having
already learned most of it. 

It all just feels really good, really right.

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 12:04:16PM

One thing is for sure, all these years of working with rather young
people (and old people who declare themselves as "non-technical") has
really been an advantage. I sort of intuitively find myself explaining
everything more like I would to one of these people instead of assuming
a lot of technical expertise (like so many other resources and teachers
seem to do). I got to be sure not to lose that as the level of base tech
skills increases in the average person I might be helping.

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 11:01:50AM

Working on a separation between the main skills and ability categories
and struggling a bit with where something like ProtonMail would fall. It
doesn't go under Modern Computer User, hummm.

## Sunday, March 1, 2020, 8:56:13AM

It's become clear what comes next for [SkilStak]{.spy}. Providing my own
certifications has always been something I wanted to do and the clearest
way to do that is now materializing pretty clearly. I have setup
certification based learning with merit-badge-like requirements before
but was overwhelmed with all the content required. Now that I'm laser
focusing on the two following certificates I can use certification to
create a crystal clear path to learning the skills I've learned are most
critical and yet have no formal method of learning or validating:

------- -------------------------------------- INIT    Technology
Initiate USER    Modern Computer User SELF    Self-Orienting Continuous
Learner NOTE    Knowledge Content Creator TERM    Linux Bash Terminal
Master SUDO    Multiplatform Desktop Administrator HOME    Home Network
Administrator PROG    Pragmatric Golang Programmer PRIV    Privacy
Advocate KNOW    Prescient Technology Professional -------
--------------------------------------

After getting those there will a capstone (like Eagle project), a paper,
a thorough personal portfolio review, and a final one hour board of
review before three professionals from the fields of software
development, operations, and security.

I have been breaking this material up and learning it in stages with
specific goals of one of the following projects that people want to
regularly do who come here in person:

* Web page
* Web app
* Game
* Job
* Robotic arm
* Minecraft server
* Hacker skills

That pretty much covers all the stuff most people walking through the
door want to learn, but they are a different group of, um, "customer" I
suppose. Streaming has broadened the number of people interested and
provided an opportunity to hone in more specifically on expertise in a
few core areas.

In other words, these things will still be possible, but won't be stuff
I specifically focus on.

## Saturday, February 29, 2020, 7:11:03PM

The nature of learning is something so many don't learn.

## Saturday, February 29, 2020, 5:22:24PM

I'm so jazzed about all this direction now, not just because I want to
do it myself but I have never seen a cleaner path to a tech career that
also has immense value for the state of our world today. My new goal is
to get as many of my mentored community the certs outlined in the
previous post as fast as possible.

I've been ambivalent toward the entire question of getting certs in the
past because of their dubious value capturing the actual skill set you
have. But the Offensive Security certs are 100% hands-on. They are
*exactly* what we need to see more of in the world. Besides, the entire
pentesting occupation is fundamentally tied to certs for most
professional work if for no other reason than to prove your hacker
skills are not only legitimate but that you are not (to use their
imaginations) some black-hat in a hoody.

Cert city here we come. This also means that I *am* going to DefCon no
matter what it takes every single year and that the entire focus of both
my [rwxrob.live](https://rwxrob.live) stream and [SkilStak]{.spy} IRL
community is 100% on foundational tech skills and building pentesting
skills on top of those. 

This means there are categories of learning I'm focused on:

* Continuous Research (Be Prescience, Become Your Own Guru) (PTP)
* Modern Technology Foundations  (MTF)
* Offensive Security Professional Certification (LPIC0,KLCP,OSCP,etc.)

In fact, Imma formalize my PTP and MTF programs into a hands-one VPN lab
certification as well. I've been meaning to provide my own certification
and that meshes well with the rest. Now that the game development and
web applications development is chopped I can focus on formalizing those
certs from [SkilStak]{.spy}. The rest are all covered by other people.

I really like that sound of all that. The PTP will be the first cert I
have ever heard of that tests your certified skills in keeping up, doing
your own research, practicing self-evaluation and assessment, and
remaining prescient at all times.

I need to cut some fat from MTF as well. Presumably stuff that is
already covered by the certs.

## Saturday, February 29, 2020, 3:47:10PM

Just found out that *all* of the [Offensive Security
certifications](https://www.offensive-security.com/courses-and-certifications/)
*do not expire*. Nothing says quality and trustworthy than that ---
especially when compared to the shitty certs from Pearson that are
multiple-choice questions and have to be renewed *every three years*.
That is really fucked up. Then again, the LPI certificates are pretty
trust worth and they require renewal every five years.

Still, the certs are a solid path to employment that has been proven
over and over again in the industry, faster than degrees and cheaper by
far. Looks like I'm going to work toward (and suggest others get) the
following probably in this order:

Fastest possible:

------ ------------------ -------------------------------------- -----
$120   Linux Essentials    Basic Linux mastery                    0 $450
KLCP                Compliments Linux Essentials           0 $1000
OSCP                Mother of all RedTeam certs.           0 ------
------------------ -------------------------------------- -----

Blue team and system administration related path after OSCP:

------ ------------------ -------------------------------------- -----
$170    A+                 In a lab, not from a book.             3 $400
LPIC-1             BlueTeam support for Linux.            5 $400
LPIC-2             BlueTeam support for Linux.            5 ------
------------------ -------------------------------------- -----

Bug bounty and more red team and zero-day stuff:

------------------ -------------------------------------- ----- OSWE
Web attacks.                            0 OSCE               Permiter
attacks.                       0 OSWP               Wifu.
0 OSEE               Malware.                                0
------------------ -------------------------------------- -----

I would definitely want the rest of the OS stuff before more of the blue
team and sysadmin because I already have all that knowledge. Getting the
Linux Essentials and KLCP is just a formality at this point for me. I'm
practically sure I'll pass without any review but will go thorough
everything to make sure not missing something. Getting it fresh makes my
knowledge of taking the test more valuable to those I'm mentoring.

Having worked successfully in the industry for more than two decades it
seems rather silly, but *the process* and helping others through it is
paramount. I never like mentoring people in things I have not already
done. Since I'm moving more toward mentoring in security it makes sense
that I supplement it. When I was mentoring in software development and
systems administration that was a no-brainer because I did it everyday
for decades. But the current pentesting stuff has been nothing but a
hobby that I need to bolster if I'm going to help others get the most
sought after technology occupation in the world right now, Security
Analyst (per <https://bls.gov>).

## Saturday, February 29, 2020, 3:09:44PM

Over the last six years I have been constantly fighting the feeling that
I just want to teach Linux and cybersecurity and hardware stuff. Slowly
I've morphed from catering to what kids want to essentially trick them
into learning serious tech skills through enticements with Minecraft or
web pages or PhaserJS games or memes to go with Python. But honestly I
fucking tired of it. I would much rather work with people who *already*
get why this stuff is important and interesting and don't need any
enticement. If anything they simply need the encouragement and support
to take on the learning and [become their own
guru](https://skilstak.io/become-your-own-guru/).

Yep, I'm fucking apologizing for thinking that your prepubescent
obsession with doing nothing more than learning to make a game is okay
and worth my wasting my time. I'm happy to help you when you get stuck.
But I am *done* teaching that shit and keeping up on it and paying the
money to the asset store and every place else --- especially when *so*
many seriously entertaining alternatives that teach pentesting as a game
are available and yet to be made.

"Mr. Rob, I wanna make a game."

"Get the fuck out!"

ROFL. And no, I'm through listening to people tell me what a great way
that is to reach out to young intelligent minds. I was fucking hacking
my Bruce Lee games by randomly scanning and deleting sectors on huge
floppy disks and enjoyed that *far* more than even playing the thing. I
*know* there are other like-minded people out there and not that my
community spans much larger than the great state of North Carolina I
think such a focus is justified from every angle.

## Saturday, February 29, 2020, 10:12:36AM

Definitely need to tweak the schedule some more. I am getting better at
focusing on stuff that is needed but given the goals for the stream and
[skilstak]{.spy} I have got to make more changes:

* Saturday and Sunday mornings are completely and totally unscheduled.

* Sunday morning will be for some sort of long endurance, long paddle,
long run, adventure cycling.

* Saturday night will be listed as sporadic rather than a planned
interactive session. That will let me plan trips that span Saturday
night and into Sunday morning.

One thing I absolute love about the Twitch community on my stream is how
welcoming it has become. It has become the place to go if you want to
get started with Linux with the least amount of judgement and plain,
no-nonsense discussion of how to *really* use it and get a job in it. It
wasn't really the plan initially but it has sort of become that.

## Friday, February 28, 2020, 8:45:02PM

Stuff is coming in so fast even blogging it isn't fast enough, so
Twitter stream it is. I'm handling stuff every day in Coffee Talk so
that covers it. Stuff that needs to be searched will land here
eventually.

I imagine these are the challenges a talk show host must face every day,
being able to keep up on the news and events, process and curate that
information, and then create a monologue (something to say about it).
It's exhausting all by itself. Keeping up is nearly impossible.

## Thursday, February 27, 2020, 8:52:00PM

Boy do I feel stupid. Starting writing a `figlet` command to convert
text to figlet ASCII art and discovered an entire ecosystem and command
already exist for it, including the `.ftf` font file format.

## Thursday, February 27, 2020, 6:46:25PM

Best way to capture the news since yesterday is to make a tweet about
every item to cover in the news. That way people see the Twitter stream,
have the links, and I have something to refer to when doing Coffee Talk
about it.

I had experimented with storing up email and bookmarks but neither are
very efficient and can't be easily shared with the end user watching the
stream. For Twitter stuff someone just has to follow to get it. Hell,
they don't even have to watch the video, but if they do they will get
more details about the tweets.

In short, tweet and then cover the tweets daily in live summary
explaining them and putting them into context.

## Thursday, February 27, 2020, 10:37:38AM

Made a fun personal status tool that just changes the current ASCII
letter status and also updates the `~/.now` text file to pull into the
schedule scene in OBS. It detects being AFK and sets "away" status. Bash
is fun.

## Wednesday, February 26, 2020, 6:07:11PM

Looks like InfluxDB is moving to rust for their version 2. Their Flux
parser clearly has a version implemented in Rust. I have one person
interviewing for their internship he happens to be obsessed with Rust.

InfluxDB is a major player in the IoT time-series database line up, and
it is in the absolute sweet spot for Rust. Alacritty is as well and is
so fucking amazing people cannot ignore that most of the advantage of
that terminal is simply because it was written in Rust.
[GoDot](https://github.com/GodotNativeTools/godot-rust) game engine is
in Rust and another studio has announced it will only code further games
in Rust (can't find the name though right now).

I gotta say, I've been watching Rust for a few years now and 2019 it
really came onto the scene hard. Then this last week Rust chatter is
*really* off the chart. Even big Go people saying essentially, "Well
duh, that is obviously an application that would be better done in
Rust." Ryan Dahl went with Go for Deno for almost a year before picking
up Rust. Brian Cantrill says Rust isn't the pick for a full operating
system but just might be the single best language for all the other
stuff. Even Fuscia (the brain-dead project from Google to replace
Android with C++ and Dart) even very publicly stated its support for
Rust and "banned" Go for any development on the operating system because
of Go's bigger runtime and such.

Combine that with the minor fail that is Go 1.14 and the waning
governance of the Go project (having lost a core founder as well) and I
think something significant is happening in that space. There's
certainly no cause for alarm, but the systems programming space is
shaping up to be Go or Rust.

What do I care?

Because I need to make sure those focusing on the back-end of things,
the systems people really get a solid handle on both Rust and C. In
fact, Rust is *far* more important in that space than Python ever will
be. Python will hold the machine learning and a lot of the cybersecurity
stuff for a while, but will eventually give way to Go, which has better
concurrency that is easier to implement, which is what both machine
learning and cybersecurity really need at the core.

## Wednesday, February 26, 2020, 3:22:52PM

Arvo Bold is the font I'm using for the heading title in the schedule
scene for OBS.

## Wednesday, February 26, 2020, 9:54:36AM

After reading the following on GitLab's page about their GraphQL API I
did some research (pulling up bad memories) and concluded it's probably
still okay to use GraphQL even though it comes from that massive turd of
a company (Facebook):

> Although there were some patenting and licensing concerns with
> GraphQL, these have been resolved to our satisfaction by the
> relicensing of the reference implementations under MIT, and the use of
> the OWF license for the GraphQL specification.

## Wednesday, February 26, 2020, 9:31:30AM

Looks like you can use *personal access tokens* as "OAuth-compliant"
headers as well according to
[GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/#personal-access-tokens). This
is good information because we see them all the time documented
differently but knowing the two are equivalent is useful:

```bash

curl --header "Private-Token: <your_access_token>"
https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects

```

Or more commonly:

```bash

curl --header "Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>"
https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects

```

## Tuesday, February 25, 2020, 6:11:50PM

This is been an uttering exhausting week. I barely recovered from the
month of streaming on Twitch and all that goes into setting that up and
then doing it regularly. It is every bit as time consuming as most
people would guess.

The bright side is that it has forced me to be even more organized in my
work and to follow a strict schedule, which has been proven over and
over again to improve productivity no matter what the endeavor. Here is
the current one for reference later (when I will be like, "Woah, he was
crazy back then.")

![Weekly Schedule](weekly-schedule.png)

## Tuesday, February 25, 2020, 7:03:23PM

Found confirmation that `let`, `const` and fat-arrow functions in modern
JavaScript are *not* hoisted (thank God).

## Monday, February 24, 2020, 6:19:31PM

Feeling the pull to put up a schedule again. I vacillate between wanting
to keep to a general schedule and being able to switch things up from
time to time. The science on those who keep a schedule is pretty clear.
They get shit done. But they also have a lot more stress in their lives.
Every time I start following a schedule I become a little hard to live
with if I can't keep it (for whatever reason). But that discipline is
something to be valued. It's the basis of the Ashtanga approach.

When I look back I can't help but acknowledge that the times of my life
where I was the most ripped and educated have always been when I
followed a perty darn strict schedule (triathlon, continuous learning on
public transportation going and coming from work, guitar practice and
gigs, etc).

That settles it, creating a new schedule it is. I imagine that will help
out those wanting help from me a lot as well.

## Monday, February 24, 2020, 4:54:18PM

The great cleanup continues. Everything will be on GitLab when this is
over, but I have hours of work. Need to decide if coding a port tool
using the APIs of both services is worth it.

## Monday, February 24, 2020, 4:35:03PM

Okay it's *insane* how much time streaming takes out of my day. I really
love it and want to keep it up, but my God no wonder more people who
actually are focused on getting shit done during the day don't touch it.
Ironically so many YouTubers I have run into are frankly kinda clueless,
or at the very least inexperienced. I won't name names, but people
reading this would definitely know them.

As usual, those who take time to write and blog and stream are
physically limited from using that time for other things. Overall I
think this is the same problem people have when teaching. All the
logistics of teaching takes so much time during the day --- especially
for a traditional institution --- that having any time left to work or
do the things that are what people want to learn is severely limited.
This is why on-the-job mentoring makes so much sense, but our society
doesn't permit for it because of the break-neck pace of devilry on
everything that would make someone learning just seem like they are in
the way of the 10x tech doing what they do best. It's something of a
dilemma for sure.

I think the best solution to the problem is simply to live-stream as
much as possible. I was talking about this with my sculptor wife who has
had the most likes on Instagram posts showing her just doing what she
does. People just want to observe what is happening and either learn
from it or glean some motivation from watching someone really get into
it. Besides, the best way to teach anything is through example.

On the other had, creating video is far easier than writing once you hit
your stride. In the time of creating this blog post I could have covered
all this material and a lot more. Words are supreme because they can be
found through searches, but video is so much faster to produce. In fact,
creating videos has taken a huge hit on my blogging because of it. There
is a happy medium in there someplace. I think it has something to do
with just making the video first, and then getting to the finished
writing later. The problem is we all never return to things. We just
move forward. Something as simple as exporting a video to YouTube won't
get done if I don't do it in that moment while I'm thinking about it.
That means that a lot of videos will *never* make it into writing. But
it also means that only those videos that absolutely need to be written
will ever get attention. 

I'm sticking with the earlier conclusion that video is for talking
through things to arrive at conclusions and blogging is for capturing
that process lightly and focusing on the conclusion itself, which is
what people are most interested in.

## Saturday, February 22, 2020, 11:48:07AM

I'm just testing some of my old videos compared to some polished talk
videos on YouTube and I have realized I have to redo them all because
the sound levels are too low (and annoying).

## Saturday, February 22, 2020, 10:43:21AM

Found a *really* great audio thing in OBS Studio. Under *Edit* ->
*Advanced Audio Properties* you can change the top decibel level. This
allows you to keep your voice in the yellow and all other sound in the
green (as suggested by OBS) and then to boost the output as needed if
you are coming across to soft in your final videos. For me adding 20db
is perfect.

![Advanced Audio Prop](advanced-audio-prop.png)

And here's what it looks like:

![Mixed 20db](mixer+20db.png)

To test it I recorded started an OBS recording while a YouTube video is
playing. Then I played it back and checked that the volume playback
level is the same as when I'm listening to it normally. I tried 10db at
first and this wasn't enough. Then I bumped it to 20db. I think another
2db would be ideal, but going to just keep it at 20db.

This explains the reason when I first started that people thought my
sound levels were low. They were in the final product.

I'm also really happy that I managed to get around the limitations of
this \$60 Xenyx Q802USB board. All I needed to do was plug the left and
right Phone/CtrlRM jacks into one of my inputs and rig up the headphones
to monitor the output, which I really wanted to do anyway because I want
an identical monitor of what is going into the computer, not just the
mic channel.

## Friday, February 21, 2020, 8:51:28AM

Looks like all the reasons to have any presence (code) on GitHub have
dissolved. In fact, there are very few things that GitHub has that
GitLab does not:

* A *lot* of members.
* Sponsorship.
* Easier (albeit ancient) web hosting.
* Stronger likelihood of being "discovered".

No seriously, that is it. And honestly those reasons don't hold water
any more.

## Thursday, February 20, 2020, 9:52:56AM

I've noticed that being subscribed to a mailing list and being required
to deleted each email as it comes in actually has value because I gives
an immediate and ongoing sense of how much the topic is being discussed,
how hot it is, for lack of a better word. I've noticed that when the
volume of a certain list goes down, say the Sites in Search Working
Group, that it indirectly indicates if there's a problem. When there's a
spike in email from one of these lists, it is a good idea to have a look
at what's going on, because it's probably significant and probably
hasn't social media. In fact, many of these topics *never* hit social
media at all but are *critical* to understand.

This morning was the first morning that I actually got to review Twitter
as usually do. It's important that I make time for this because of all
they critical data that comes through it. People discount Twitter all
the time, but it has an invaluable resource of news and critical current
information about tech in general and tech as it relates to my specific
interests. It's a hard sale to prove to most people. They think Twitter
and they think Kardashians and trolls.

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 8:35:39PM

Imma make this blog work with just Bash and Pandoc for now. I'll come
back and do it right in Go later. After Bash is amazing for prototyping
and gluing things together (just like Perl used to be famous for doing).

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 7:13:00PM

There's something interesting happening with Arch, however. I keep
saying that you won't find it in the enterprise, but the enterprise is
changing. Work is decidedly moving to remote models, models where the
worker is responsible for their own IT, their own computer, their own
security and their own operating system. Could it be that saying Arch
isn't ready based on it not being "enterprise ready" be looking at the
wrong thing? 

I wonder if GitLab allows people to use Arch and connected to their VPN
to get work done. If so, that's all we need to know. In other words,
Arch could potentially already be "enterprise" simply because the
enterprise is composed of people working remotely use use whatever the
fuck they want. Whatever gets the job done the fastest.

I suppose this is particularly true for cybersecurity --- especially bug
bounty hunting. No one cares what Linux you're using if you can break
shit, and find broken shit.

Suffice it to say, this has be questioning my position on Arch, but as
long as the core Linux certifications and cybersecurity require core
knowledge of the less sexy distros I'll stick with having beginners
start with Mint. Mint is 100% stable. I've never had a problem with it.
Arch is *not* for beginners no matter how much they feel like they are
ready for it.

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 6:40:31PM

People who install Arch have the biggest backfire effect response of
anyone I talk to. They *refuse* to accept that Arch is a really bad
operating system for most everything in the professional world. I get
not wanting to use the equivalent of AIX on your personal system. But
the amount that people are completely unwilling to accept that putting a
more mainstream OS on their system is fundamentally better for them and
their learning is frankly hilarious. There's simply no convincing them,
until they come to the realization on their own when they ask, "Mr. Rob,
so how can I get a job?" or "How can I get certified the fastest?" Arch
is currently not in any enterprise IT shop on the planet and I'll pay
\$50 to the first person who finds one. It is certainly poised to make
the jump for many things, but has not yet. It isn't included in *any*
exam and people continually thing that Arch is similar enough to Debian
based systems to have their learning transfer. It doesn't, period. But
unfortunately so many are so set on getting what they falsely perceive
as the "cool" Linux that they shoot themselves in the foot and won't
listen to reason --- especially from some old, grey-bearded Mint user.
I'll enjoy the company of some of the worlds most intelligent
technologists knowing *they* understand even if no one else does.

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 6:36:24PM

Need to remember to bump up the cam resolution to 1920x1080. Forgot that
this last time around and the difference is pretty significant,
particularly for things like smoothing and saturation.

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 3:57:16PM

Need to convert the color changes I made in my person vimrc for Pandoc
into my `vim-pandoc-syntax-simple` plugin.

## Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 9:10:59AM

A few small things to remember about streaming:

* When setting up video toggle hotkeys don't turn them on through OBS.
Instead always use the hotkey so the toggle doesn't get out of sync
between scenes.

* Decided to change everything about the stream between streams and make
the notification the same as the title. That way no one wanders it
thinking we'll be coding when we are just chatting. I wanna be
respectful of people's time. 

* It looks like changing everything from IRC is possible, just not from
Hexchat. Need to look into that.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 11:02:19PM

Rairden showed us a great regular expression [search
plugin](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/find%20-regex-find-in-page/fddffkdncgkkdjobemgbpojjeffmmofb)
for Chromium browsers. Also <https://regexr.com/> for testing regular
expressions.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 9:10:03PM

Every time I encounter a shitty site that requires JavaScript ---
especially those that are documentation like Go tutorials or IRC support
--- I cannot contain my rage. They trigger me as much as stepping in a
full pile of shit IRL. So. The remedy will be this [Shameful Shitty
Sites](/shameful-shitty-site/) page. Perhaps someone might even see one
on one of my videos while I mock them to death for how horribly moronic
the devs are. It's one thing to not understand what you are doing (just
one pile of shit) but it's quite another and just do it anyway. Those
people deserve all five piles of shit bagged up and left on their
doorstep on fire. It might not ever be seen by anyone, but it at least
lets me get it out of my system and move on. Ah, I feel better getting
that shit out already.

In fact, I plan on having a weekly segment called Shameful Shitty Sites
where I throw any possible monetization out the window and go full Rob
Sterling on their asses calling them out by name if I have to. Someone
has to fight against this tidal wave of absolute idiocy. It's actually
hurting people's lives and they either don't know or knowingly don't
give a shit.

(And yeah, I'm definitely adding the mature rating to my stream.)

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 7:57:57PM

Need to wrap up that `vim-pandoc-syntax-simple` plugin because people
are looking for a good way to "color" their Markdown. Should finish that
before doing the video on creating a full static site generator in 20
lines of Bash with Pandoc.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 6:33:46PM

Watching the very personable [\@Adam13531](https://twitch.tv/Adam13531)
do VSCode programming on a Discord bot and have a bunch of things going
through my head:

* Need to be *really* ready for absolute novices coming to the stream
eventually.

* Must have my own IRC agent completely finished before ever reaching
that level of activity.

* *No* streams on popular topics until all of that is complete. That
includes nothing about Discord bots, PhaserJS games, "Hacking" and
anything else that might attract a script kiddie or someone taking a
break from playing their favorite game for four hours a day. I have
nothing against those people, just want to be really for a *ton* of
absolute beginners.

* I never want my bedroom to be on a stream, ever.

* Watching people look up documentation using a graphic web browser is
absolutely excruciating.

* Glad to see that `class` has reached mainstream enough in JavaScript
to be picked up by Adam.

* OMG! Intellisense is *so* annoying and noob. I'm embarrassed for him
watching it. But I'm in the wrong there. I shouldn't care.

* Apparently picking `.live` was the right domain. Looks like that's
what he did. I am so fucking jazzed that I got `rwx.tv` and `rwx.gg`.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 4:24:59PM

Having a lot of initial success with the group with [Eloquent
JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net) in combination with an open
JavaScript console next to them as they read along in the book. Don't
know why I didn't think of that earlier. It's the perfect way to *do* as
you *learn* to help things sink in. I had done something similar with
the whole *codebook* concept before, which was good because that was
Python and Go as well. This method does depend on having an Internet
connection, but with the option of downloading or buying the book and
doing the same thing offline, so I meets the what-if-everyone-did-it
test. I really love this approach because there is absolutely *zero*
setup involved, nothing to install, no books to wait to arrive, no
Internet setup, no Linux installation, just raw reading, coding and
self-evaluating immediately.

I must remember who suggested I look into this book. It is really good.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 1:52:49PM

Really need to put some effort into quantifying, capturing, and
documenting important cognitive skills such as self-evaluation.

## Tuesday, February 18, 2020, 1:15:33PM

I really need to figure out how to change the steam to "Just Chatting"
on occasion to talk through issues I find super interesting like leaving
Mormonism, divorce, history, even politics. Still wondering if I need a
different account for that or if setting the topic is enough.

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 8:33:31PM

JavaScript's `case` statement is so lame after using Go's for so long:

* No commas
* Forced `break`

```js

switch (card) { case 2: case 3: case 4: case 5: case 6: count++ break
case 7: case 8: case 9: // hold, no change break case 10: case 'J': case
'Q': case 'K': case 'A': count-- break }

```

```go

switch card { case 2,3,4,5,6: count++ case 7,8,9: case
10,'J','Q','K','A': count-- }

```

And yes that works in Go with `'J'` because it is interpreted as a rune
(sort of).

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 3:49:46PM

Imma keep the VODs around for seven days. Eventually they will be
subscriber only. I figure that gives everyone enough time to filter
through all the wild, random conversation to find what they want, if
that is worth it to them. Then I'll make the videos continuously as I
have been that are highlighted.

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 12:19:48PM

I've concluded that turning off the steam is much more effective for
focusing my life and producing the best possible output, both for the
stream and for my life. It let's me let go and be in the moment of Yoga,
eating, cleaning, doing administrative tasks. It causes me to look
forward to completing tasks to get to the point where I can stream and
focuses my mind when I am streaming. It's no stress that this conclusion
is just a form of another rather famous one.

Be present. Be true. Be learning.

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 10:23:43AM

I'm realizing that live streaming is really just "teaching by example"
as it's called in Sunday School. When you are doing pretty much
everything in front of others --- especially since they can replay it
--- you are giving them an opportunity to learn from your experience ---
including your mistakes --- as they happen. I think it also makes you
more relatable.

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 10:08:06AM

Rather than just ignore all the email for the week related to news. I
will go add them to WeeklyNews (perhaps even organized by week) and sort
of pre-filter them to reduce time when I do a news review on Saturday
morning. That seems like a happy medium between doing a more official
News segment like I tried, and just reading everything without never
opening at the end of the week. I *must* keep News under one hour.

Perhaps this will save me from the emotional rants that happen
spontaneously because I am reading things in real-time and not have time
to calm down and think about how to talk about it more rationally on
Saturday morning.

Discord responses, however, will be raw and my first time reading them.

In fact, thinking of things in terms of how they will streamed and
documented and shared as videos has really forced me to put some more
structure around my weekly workflow (and personal), which is a good
thing.

One of the things I need to better at is seriously focusing for a moment
or two, and then allowing myself to read the chat in order to get things
done. I'll be sure to have Q&A where I do nothing more than just read
the chat, but if I'm going to live-stream everything I have set some
boundaries or I *know* I'll get nothing done.

Overall streaming has made me much more productive and way more informed
both of which are key to meeting my goals of helping people learn what
they need to be current and *stay* current. I'm not talking about
chasing trends. I'm talking about improving the core ability to curate
effectively.

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 9:53:08AM

Did my first new and Discord chat review. It all went well and decided
to use iconography for each thumbnail to make it easy to sort.

Also tested Discord screen sharing and voice and there was no echo. So
I'm good for doing interviews, private sessions, and even multiple voice
participants on stream for topic podcast-y conversations. The sky is not
officially the limit. This means we can do any --- including
*everything* that I do in person. Theoretically I can hold ever single
one-on-one session that I already do IRL over Discord and/or Twitch.
This implies a lot:

* Members who miss because of sickness or distance can still have a
remote session.

* Remote sessions with more than one person can be attempted so long as
they are able to get their desktop to work in a combined. I think
there's a good multiple user streaming app for this, perhaps even
Discord.

I've about finalized my decision to "age out" those I help IRL with
those who are in need online, including possibly more than one person in
the group so that I can make sessions even more affordable and
attainable. Of course this is all tentative at this point and I don't
want to let anybody down by not fully testing the whole approach, but
I'm very hopeful.

The fact of the matter is that I'm meeting people on the stream who are
far more likely to benefit from what I have to offer than some of the
younger members here who can barely find time to code during the week
and are essentially just like kids taking piano lessons who don't
practice and show up for a lesson each week having made zero progress. I
don't have many of these, but I do have enough now that having them here
while knowing someone who is more motivated than them is unable to get
help annoys me enough to make a change.

In short, passing an application interview just a lot harder because the
waiting list just blew up with motivated people from all over the world.
Local people are now directly competing for my time with highly
motivated people around the globe.

So if you were born with a silver spoon in your mouth and you think
throwing extra money at me will ensure you sessions and time with me,
you will be surprised. That sounds so arrogant, but it's the truth. I
don't give a shit how much money you have. The only thing that matters
is how *driven* you are to learn and take ownership of your learning.
(God writing that last sentence felt good.)

## Monday, February 17, 2020, 9:52:36AM

I like tracking time in weeks. It's been good to get a sense of time
passing a bit better. 

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 2:56:14PM

Next time I do a video about Git hosting it has to include a lot more
than just GitHub vs GitLab, namely the following:

* [Gitea](https://gitea.io)
* [cgit](https://git.zx2c4.com/cgit)
* [SourceHut](https://sr.ht)

There are other options is the point if you don't want to play the big
"Facebook for developers" (GitHub) game.

Now that I've had a little more time to think about it, I'm *really*
convinced that hosting repos all over the place is just not my thing. I
cannot see a compelling reason for it anymore, the *only* significant
reason was for visibility and to make it easier for those who already
have a GitHub account but anyone unwilling (or unable) to use GitLab is
probably not someone you want to see a PR from anyway. People who do not
understand the substantial advantages of GitLab's foundational CI/CD
integration (and all their other advantages) either out of ignorance or
simply an inability to understand are not worth having on a project team
until they *do* understand why. The end. The sounds harsh, but I've been
too wishy-washy on this topic and it has seriously cost me a lot of time
and energy.

I think that using *what you want* after putting in an enormous amount
of energy to understand why your selection is objectively the best for
your situation should be rewarded, not punished. After all, that's
*exactly* how Linux came into existence.

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 2:49:06PM

I did realize that there is still a compelling reason to maintain an
active GitHub account: to manage forks and submit issues using that
service. If I seriously fork something I can move it to GitLab (like the
latest `vim-pandoc-syntax-simply` fork of mine).

I am going to keep more of everything under my personal account (instead
creating one of the very easy to create free groups on GitLab). I'll
save a group for when I actually have other people working on the
project with me an want to vary the organization of repos and
permissions. For example, the `readme.world` group will remain and I can
put `rw` and any server infrastructure in there. S²OIL will remain as
well as a place for utilities and documentation about lessons-learned
from the initiative and community that can accept submissions and
participation from a much larger group than just me and the community
here. And, of course, SKILSTAK will remain a group there as well.

God I'll be glad with all this migration and cleanup is finished. I
suppose this means my priority in that regard is finishing the basic
`repo` tool for dealing with the repos on both systems, something the
`hub` tool can never offer.

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 2:08:35PM

Just ran into [another
project](https://gitlab.com/tslocum/cview/-/blob/master/FORK.md) ---
with a core library --- that has [migrated to
GitLab](https://gitlab.com/tslocum/cview/-/commit/5f880bc2c7e62eab34ea46946b8ae2d2e9b1f6a4).
I *keep* running into these. Usually it is really informed technologists
and teams that are doing it.

The `cview` team is remarkable. They seriously know their stuff and they
have decided that to use the `gitlab.com/tslocum/cview` package that you
will forever have to be dependent on GitLab, *not* GitHub. This flies in
the face of the \#1 reason to keep stuff on GitHub: availability and
community size.

I'm feeling *horribly* conflicted at the moment. After my evaluation
earlier in the year about why everything public needs to be on GitHub
because that is where the contributors and recruiters are I'm seeing
solid evidence that this is changing, slowly, but definitely changing.

The conclusion I'm arriving at is that there are far fewer people on
GitLab, but those who *are* on GitLab are by and large *far* more
informed and intelligent about their decisions regard source management
and even aesthetics. In short, they are more discerning and would rather
face not being found than be on GitHub.

So which type of community do I want to make myself a part of?

You already know that answer. GitLab beats GitHub on every single point
that matters. The only thing I have not yet tested is their GraphQL API.
I'm going to sit on this decision for a week or so and talk it out with
other amazing technologists on stream and in person, but I have a
feeling I will be saying goodbye to the closed-source, cluster-fuck that
is GitHub. I already feel less dirty for porting things over *to* GitHub
in the first place.

I mean, if you depend on being found in GitHub or playing with all the
script kiddies there that don't even understand why GitLab is so
ridiculously superior then you have bigger problems. It's not like my
having bought Macs at one point because I thought it would help attract
more students. It certainly did, but the ones it attracted sucked. Had I
stayed Linux my student base would have remained more like what I have
today. 

In other words, I've all but decided to abandon GitHub entirely, once
and for all and to put a placeholder there that says, find me on GitLab.
The End.

Ya know, every time I allow myself to be influenced by a *perceived*
perception management concern it is always the wrong decision. Picking
the superior ideas and technologies and using them *no matter what
others thing* is the only way to live.

As for my people here? Well, imma let them decide for themselves. I'll
tell them what I'm doing and I'll leave it at that.

As for me, I'll be keeping my stuff all under a new group named `rwxrob`
and making a very distinct line between personal stuff and stuff for
SkilStak. The `ssoil` stuff will remain it's own entity.

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 1:59:34PM

I've confirmed the problem with sound levels being out of sync. My
lights on this board were not even hitting the orange at all. And when I
bump up the channel volumes to put them in the orange on the board they
go in the red on OBS Studio. Which means that OBS Studio is bork and
off, which is consistent with what Rairden was complaining about
earlier. He'll like learning he was right again. ;)

This means the *only* reason to watch OBS is to be able to quickly hide
something with passwords, which means I have one less thing that needs
to be on the main screen. Huzzah!

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 1:52:20PM

It has to be said. Streamers who are putting they chat into their main
video feed and who are *not* able to textually respond seem to be doing
it the hard way. I know that Twitch is designed for streamers to be able
to vocally respond to text chat on stream and that might help, but
having HexChat on the screen set to "Always On Top" is much more
efficient for the kind of live-coding streaming I'm doing because not
only can I see the messages coming it, but I can respond to them
immediately without even switching to show anything in the web browser.
In fact, the only reason I even need the web browser *at all* is to edit
the stream settings to change what people see when notifications go out.
And I'm also learning that you have to stop the stream anyway for that
to really take hold properly, if even for a short moment.I'm getting
much better at quickly starting and stopping the stream so I don't lose
the connection with everyone, which also helps to split the videos on
demand (VODs).

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 1:37:15PM

Reminded that my Twitch agent/bot needs to be able to regex search the
titles from YouTube and list the URL for the video so I can pull it up
instantly without cutting and pasting from YouTube. A sort of query
language just for content of the different videos in the
<https://rwxrob.live> collection. Come to think of it, as soon as they
are all paired with their written content on <https://skilstak.io> I
could just pull up those and make the bot use the `rw search` command to
find hits. That would integrate the whole damn thing! Woot!

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 1:15:53PM

Arggg, the sound meter in OBS Studio lies. I know it isn't probably the
most scientific measure, but listening to music coming from the coffee
music streams is at the right sound level and without changing any
volumes I cannot hear myself on the news stream this morning. 

Actually I don't think it is OBS Studio that is the problem. This board
is way to underpowered to send an amplified signal to my device. Upping
the main output volume would very likely fix this problem but the board
is way to underpowered to do it. Hopefully the new board, that should
work entirely through USB can handle all this much better because the
return signal will be digital and not depend on board amplification.
This crappy board requires an analog setup.

It is possible that it's not the board at all, that the digital signal
coming in as a mic source cannot be maxed further. For now that just
means recording at ranges that hit regularly in the red on OBS. We'll
see what that does with distortion though.

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 12:14:45PM

I got to thinking about how much information a person gives up about
themselves to Google when they setup repeating, regular search reports
that come as email. I imagine whatever heuristics they have for that
stuff ranks such search terms with much higher priority further creating
an "echo chamber" effect not only on all Google activity, but all the
activity of anyone in your home (on the same IP) who goes to *any* web
page that uses Google Analytics. It's pretty damn 1984 with the goal
controlling your buying habits, not world domination... oh wait, that
*is* world domination.

Of course that got me to thinking (in the shower) about possible
solutions. The obvious solution is for people to create and control
their own web crawlers. This is an idea that would have been dismissed
immediately in previous iterations of the Internet and WorldWideWeb but
is very acceptable today given current bandwidth and computer resources.
"What if everybody did it?". Well, that's something we can't know fully.
It is certainly orders of magnitude better for humanity than if
*everyone* traded in crytpo-currencies, which would destroy our current
world power grid.

There are several web crawlers out there that have come across my radar
(none of which I can remember right now). One of the most interesting
ones used Go concurrency to search the entire open web in 24 hours (was
the claim).

None of the crawlers (that I know of) cover deep-web, dark web, and
README knowledge network, nor do they mine data from Newsgroups,
specific tweets, and other crawlable knowledge sources. Yet these
alternative sources are *invaluable* in all decision making and
knowledge of current events. The Go-Nuts mailing list comes to mind. The
opinions and information expressed there *never* hit the mainstream
social media of Twitter, Reddit, etc. Yet *that* information is 10 times
more valuable than anything from social media.

So there is a very clear value proposition to creating a way for people
to customize their own Internet keyword crawlers. A lot of the
technology would overlap with crawlers/scanners that I already want to
make to improve bug bounty hunting. Hell, the hacker community certainly
doesn't have any problem scanning the whole Internet all the time.
Shodan.io regularly scans *every* device. Which is what I would
envision. There is a *lot* more information to be had from the entire
Internet than there is just the Web. In fact, the amount of useful data
on the Web is diminishing as more and more people keep their information
in their own communities and countries.

I wonder what [Aaron](https://youtu.be/gpvcc9C8SbM) would make of all
this? I wish he were here to lead us. There's no doubt in my mind now
that he was killed by the American government, which has said it would
kill Snowden if they ever got a hold of him as well. God I hope I don't
suddenly show up in the news with a suspicious death like Aaron. But I'm
no where near the threat he was. Aaron almost single-handedly defeat
legislation in congress through passionate, non-violent activism.

I certainly don't have time to write such a tool right now, but after I
finish `rw` and `readme.world` I definitely will. 

I wonder what we could name it, perhaps something to honor the memory of
Aaron. Perhaps `hil` from his middle name Hillel. Now for a domain, the
inexhaustible form of hope for projects I'll *eventually* get to for the
low, low price of \$7 a year.

Humm, what if I used `know.sh`. Yeah, that might work. I'm not inclined
to put a pretty GUI front end on it anyway, and with `cview` being a
thing now that people could `ssh` into I would be directly rewarding
people for searching for information in the safest, most private, most
cost-effective way, through text. Yeah, I can see Aaron smiling about
that idea. Sure he felt everyone should have access to data and I'm not
saying they can't, just that I want to build the entire infrastructure
based on no GUI first and *then* layer an appropriate GUI on it after
that.

In fact, maybe the main command needs to be `know` with a bunch of
subcommands. Yeah, I really like that idea. Aaron will *know* it is for
him. I like it to because it has all kinds of tag-line possibilities,
like "in the know" and "did you know" and "be a know-it-all". 

I really wish I had a army of developers to help make stuff like this
into a reality. I suppose I'm doing the right things to find them,
through streaming and finally putting myself out there on YouTube. So
far the talent and minds that is attracted to my stream are rather
significant.

## Sunday, February 16, 2020, 11:04:09AM

With Pandoc 2.9.2's release it is really clear that the project is
moving toward a data-centric design and architecture. This is
phenomenally cool. It is consistent with the reason I left Hugo (forming
Hugonot and FADB and contributed to the TOML project) as well as the
main idea behind my [Hugo
tutorial](https://github.com/rwxrob/hugo-tutorial-link-data-to-type)
that helps create data-centric, data-driven Hugo sites.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 3:09:17PM

Two types of learning from others one-on-one (or a small group):

* Beginners teaching others what they just learned.
* Knights and serfs (currently employed professionals).
* Veterans mentoring what they did their whole life.

Teacher's become facilitators making and managing the connections.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 2:31:53PM

[GrapheneOS](https://grapheneos.org/) is an amazing Android-compatible,
drop-in replacement for the OS on your Google Pixel that has had *all*
of Google's spying removed. I think I'm finally ready to go back to a
smart phone now that I know it exists. This is the middle path between
using the vendor's stuff and the insane Librem5. It means I don't have
to throw out my Pixel hardware and can actually make good use of it.
Just have to have a good SIM card.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 1:04:25PM

Really loving the Raspi 4. It can run a full multi-user Minecraft server
without a hiccup (3 could not even overclocked) and it has full gigabit
speeds meaning with a USB 3 Ethernet adapter you can make an amazing
packet sniffer and put it on your home network to learn all sorts of
cool stuff about how networking works (not to mention sniff any
unencrypted password your mom, dad, or sibling enters without HTTPS).
Who doesn't want to do that? ;) The fact that it is hardware means that
it can't be detected on the network like an Alpha in monitor mode could
be, but also means people would not regularly be looking at the physical
location of your home Internet connection (but most don't).

Also hearing about the [Arduino Portenta
H7](https://store.arduino.cc/usa/portenta-h7).

> "Run Tensorflow for low power machine learning."

The ads for this thing are all pros using it in IoT settings with
construction hats on, dual core processor at 480 MHz, hi-density
connectors for infinite GPIO extensions. The thing is serious. Nothing
says ARM == IoT more than a device like this.

Why do I care? 

Because IoT *is* ARM. As much as I love Gooligum and MicroChip PICs for
learning Assembly (because they are so simple) the true future of IoT is
learning to code for devices such as the Arduino Potenta H7. Knowing
they exist is the first solid indicator that *this* is where the
industry is going. The complex PICs that MicroChip keeps putting out are
not going to stand a chance against the power of low-power ARM chips for
this stuff, even with MicroChip's massive monopoly on the PIC market.

The movement of light TensorFlow crunched models to the endpoints is
taking off like crazy as well, which means *machine learning* is key
(not necessarily all "Data Science", a horrible term and machine
learning people hate as bad as "Full Stack").

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 12:24:02PM

Just hearing about a device called the [Sierra AirLink
FX30](https://source.sierrawireless.com/devices/fx-series/fx30/), a
\$200 minimal 3G/4G LTE cellular gateway. I smell pineapple, mmmmm! Here
are some fun facts about it that confirm some of my main unpopular
conclusions:

* No `nano`, just `vi`, not even `vim`.
* Just `/bin/sh` which looks like probably `ksh`. 

In other words, if you are into IoT you really need to pretend you have
one of these *and only one of these* when you make your decisions about
workflow, habits, and muscle-memory.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 11:27:03AM

Quickly mentioning the need I have had to start quizzing people
immediately on their reading for the week to keep them doing it. I try
to avoid any kind of quiz or test, but it is really the only thing that
gets them doing it and helps me know if they even tried. If not, no
worries, do it again next week.

That means I need a way to quickly capture quiz questions for a given
section of a given book, which works out because I'm already annotating
the book so having some self-test quiz questions along with exercises is
the obvious goal.

Here are some for example:

Introduction:
* Why should you use the command line?
* What is the book about?
* What does it mean to "live" on the command line?
* What are other ways besides command line to use computer?
* What is Linux? What does Linux-centric mean? Why is Linux different?
* What does Watts mean by "freedom"?
* What is an SBC? Name one example.
* What does CLI stand for?
* What does HCI stand for?
* What does REPL stand for?
* What does GUI stand for?
* What does TUI stand for?
* What is a CUI?
* How is a TUI different than a CLI?
* What HCIs were used *before* terminals existed?
* What HCIs might come in the future?
* Which HCI is the most efficient (so far)?
* What skills are required to use a CLI?
* What type of interface is used for a MUD?
* Who might prefer a MUD over a graphic game?
* Who might prefer a graphics only game?
* Why is it important that we thing about *all* users?
* What does *accessibility* mean?
* What makes "knowledge of the command line" different than "many
computer skills"?
* Which version of the shell should you learn?

Part I
* What is a shell? What do you do with it? What's its purpose?
* How do you start and use it?
* What is the name of the shell that is default on Linux?

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 11:06:42AM

Being reminded that working with some people requires they know
*exactly* what they are going to get and generally how fast it will
take. Unfortunately this is impossible to state exactly for any one
person. The best I can do is provide the "fruit" of their learning and
direct them up the tree at each branching node toward the specific fruit
they want. Here's a rough summary of the most in-demand fruit here (in
order of popularity):

1. A Minecraft server
1. A Game.
1. A tech job.
1. A Web page.
1. Hacker skills.
1. An App.

I'm feeling the need to return to a friendlier diagram of the path to
get to these specifically, something with a bit more color. The question
is whether to make them all on one chart (as I maintained for years) or
on separate charts and just how informal and fun to make it. To date
everything has been black-and-white and very formal. I'm not a fan of
kitschy forced graphic art and infographics, but maybe it's time. Maybe
I could hire the artists I know to pretty-ify it.

This week I need to have everyone declare their path (again) and I need
to completely delete all my writing about "first stack, full stack"
because honestly, in practice it doesn't work. I've now has a year to
full test that approach and I can say pretty clearly it fails. It tries
to maintain too many skills concurrently.

Instead, the focus not is *chopping* everything that is not critical to
the specific path and seriously isolating the core skills that
*everyone* needs. That means *terminal mastery for everyone* like before
with skilstak.sh fully restored. It means allowing some to drop if they
are not interested in learning the very most important skills to learn
as I see them, which, more harshly stated means, "Learn terminal skills
or get out."

This is *especially* true now that I have to turn away potential people
I could take on one-on-one to teach from the stream over those who might
complain here locally. Streaming has been a really fortunate discovery
for this very reason.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 10:59:28AM

Finally found how to silence the volume up and down sound. It's under
Sounds tab of the Sound system preference window. I turned everything
off since I'm streaming it all at any given point during the day. Just
taking a note so I don't forget.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 10:34:13AM

God I get triggered by people who put their religious affiliation as the
first thing in their title like this:

> "Christian. Hacker. Pirate. Ninja. Author. KC3FRD. Hackers for
> Charity."

No one gives a shit. If you feel some guilt to your God and creator to
make sure HE gets top billing so be it, but don't force all of us to
read it. Sure it's your feed. You are free to do what you want,
including being an asshole.

Ironically the people who do this are *almost* always Christians. You
don't see Quakers, Buddhists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Muslims, Jews doing
this (okay some Muslims do put something praising Allah into everything
I suppose). The point is *don't.* Anyone who actually gave a shit and
treated what you have to say differently because of your *professed*
belief in a particular religion (instead of proving your piety with you
actual actions) is severely stuck in the worst kind of echo chamber.

Think of it, "Hummm, this person is Christian, so I better listen to
them *even more* than the others. Oooo, he's wearing a cowboy hat, he's
my kind of people. I'm so glad I found him!"

Sadly that is *exactly* what they think. No wonder we are in serious
trouble. The only thing worse is listening to a Fox News anchor more
intently because she's just so damn hot! Just ask Meghan Kelly who had
to "twirl" in front of Jabba the Fox Blob just to get the job despite
her Ivy league college law degrees.

By the way, this is a great example of when the one true mantra and
commandment can be applied:

> "What if everybody did it?"

Asking that question immediately reveals how stupid it is. What if every
single person on Twitter listed their religious affiliation at the first
thing in their description? How about the Christians who do not? Are
they *less* Christian because they didn't? Is the reason you feel it
should be the first fucking thing we read about you serious enough that
you silently judge the rest of the world for *not* listing that they are
a Christian very first? It's like a really bad Black Mirror episode
where all those who *don't* profession their Christianity every time
they fill out a profile are condemned for being too apathetic. 

It would be funny if it were not *exactly* what the Nazis did under
Hitler. Not wearing enough Swastikas? Hummm, you are suddenly watching
the people following you around ever corner.

I know this seems like just a little thing. "Dude, why are you freaking
out?" Because it is little things like this that trigger me because of
the underlying dangerous psychology that promotes doing that shit. Some
place deep down this asshole judges everyone who *doesn't* list their
religious affiliation first, but judges them even more if when they do
so they are another one.

And no, it's not like listing the proper pronoun to be used. As annoying
as that is listing he/him is practical because (as I've encountered on
stream) you simply don't know what pronoun to use for a random person on
Twitter or Twitch.

Sigh.

## Saturday, February 15, 2020, 10:24:48AM

I got an email (again) today about the fight against the Alaska pipeline
and it always makes me wish I had unlimited time. I like to think I'm
putting a lot of good out into the world and I'm making the best use of
my time here but I always feel like I should be doing more.

I didn't always feel that way. At one point I felt that if I was doing
my Mormon church "calling" and taking care of my family (the way my wife
at the time thought was acceptable) that I was good, that my
contribution to humanity had been fulfilled. How wrong I was.

People who get in their little insulated bubbles of religion or
community and never look outside at what's going on around them are
almost a physical manifestation of Plato's cave. I never *ever* want to
find myself there again. Why the fuck do I have to be 52 to really
realize this? (To be fair to myself I knew it all along and only acted
on it in my late 40s.) No wonder old people are always looking tired.
They have less energy and more awareness, which is a frustrating
combination to be sure.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 9:19:46PM

I be coding on a Friday night, but only for a few super retro songs
while cleaning up this fork of the `vim-pandoc-syntax` plugin. So happy
to be free from that other maintainer. I have no ill will toward him,
just so fucking happy opensource allows me to steal it and do it my way.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 8:40:36PM

Been playing with the Twitch rerun thing and ran into a forum of angry
people insisting that Twitch is "live" streaming, and that people
"scamming the system" with reruns need to be dealt with. I tend to
agree. My original motivation was to make it easier for people who
actually might not now how to get to the old videos, but honestly
everyone pretty much knows that. I have run into a few people who don't
even know that I have videos or a YouTube channel with the best, but
that is not really an issue that I can overcome other than inform them
about them on the live chat and remind them they are there.

In other news, I actually did a full highlight video edit session on the
live stream with *zero* problems with OBS. It was rather "meta" to use
the word of one person in chat. They were giving me real-time feedback
on clipping and editing the video while I was doing it, so weird and
wonderful.

Tonight I'll be turning the stream off for Valentine's Day.

Also, I'm not going to be leaving the stream on over night anymore. I'm
only going to live stream when I'm actually doing something even if it
is just drinking coffee and reviewing the news.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 6:34:56PM

So the Internet won! Championed by Louis Rossmann the horde of IT people
[defeated](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/ezwtsj/comptia_stops_lobbying_against_right_to_repair/)
the corrupt CompTIA that gave up it's lobbying *against* "right to
repair" (and pushing its obvious agenda of forcing everyone to buy their
certification products). It is like the real-world version of either
UEFI or Tivoization, take your pick.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 6:18:57PM

I fucking *hate* Node. Sitting here watching this bloated piece of shit
install for five minutes making my system entirely subject to NPM Trojan
worm attacks, but still I have to have it for Browsersync. I *really*
need to port that entire codebase to Go. It's such a natural application
for it. Installs would be for a single, tiny executable instead of
pulling in all this Node shit.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 3:36:04PM

As I've been cleaning and consolidating existing curriculum outlines
I've been conflicted about where to put it. Do I keep it on
[skilstak.io](https://skilstak.io) or do I move it to
[robs.io](https://robs.io). The answer is probably [SkilStak]{.spy} but
I sometimes wonder if that is going to reduce the appeal of it just
being me, which is exactly what skilstak is. People don't often realized
that skilstak.io is just my one-man company's web site. There's a
dilemma that exists between presenting substance through one's web site,
and misleading people to think it is more than it is. If I just had a
personal site up I don't know what the response would be versus
something that looks more formal. At the end of the day,
[SkilStak.io]{.spy} is just a place to store my education content. Yes,
it's a company, but the company is just me. I imagine that would be
clarification to the Twitch Live Coding team when the time comes to
apply. Perhaps that's enough to keep things authentic. I do put that on
the page.

However, I had been thinking of making [skilstak.io]{.spy} less
first-person and more suitable for using in a classroom setting since
that's one of my main goals.

I don't know why I obsess about this stuff so much. I think it's because
I want to document a good model that other potential one-person private
mentored community leaders might want to follow. If I can help them then
the obsession has been worth it. That's also the reason I so obsessively
writing everything down. My memory is horrible and someday I want to
capture this experience and insight --- including the trivial stuff ---
is some kind of guidebook. The more people who choose to mentor and the
more people who are helped by mentoring the better we all become and
more broken traditional models will fall. In other words, this is how I
do battle against a broken system.

One thing is for sure, [robs.io](https://robs.io) will be where all of
this sort of personal pontifications goes, including the
not-so-infrequent f-bomb. That will already SkilStak better.

I suppose that means SkilStak *will* become a second-person knowledge
base with not references to specific author things. When I a callout
(those things in different colored boxes) I'll be sure to include the
name related to it. That way I can include anecdotes and such from other
others, like William Shotts.

The hard part of all this is that *all* of the material on
[skilstak.io]{.spy} will therefore need to be re-written. But frankly it
needed that anyway. Tech content is *rarely* done. It's constantly in a
fluid state. So I really need to do is revised and update the content,
decide if it still belongs, and change the voice. Then I can the search
engine and index page back on. (Currently they are off so people don't
find all of it, hundreds of README modules.) 

I won't lie. The amount of work is overwhelming when considering how
much time I already spend in real-life mentoring sessions and now with
streaming, and the coding required to make the tools, well, let's just
say, I don't have time for Witcher. ;) I will say this though, it's far
more rewarding now that the stream is with me. The feedback and
appreciation is very motivating to the point of obliterating any
addictive desire to play through Witcher just one more time.

I does mean, however, that a lot of the reading I have queued up to do
will either have to wait, or be something I stream while I do it. I
suppose streaming the reading isn't bad. I certainly won't be polished,
but that will help me put structure around the stuff that needs a more
formal video created.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 12:04:36PM

Just saw the news notifications come in for the day and it got me to
thinking that maybe the best way to cover news is just to talk out loud
about it as I read it every day, which is something I always do. Let's
be real, I've never going to actually get to the "News" video that I
want to do for the week. Why not just read the news and drink coffee
with the stream?

Well for one, it means really letting the stream see all my email. But
how bad is that? There's really no one being doxed in my email. So I
don't think that's enough reason not to do it. 

Humm, but what about the parents of people who come? Their emails are
not exposed unless I open them. But everyone can see their first names.
In past everyone has been okay with people their first names, which
incidentally means showing my reservation calendar is also not doxing
anyone.

I suppose the question is should I wait for subscriber only streams do
to all of this. That would certainly be safer. I think that really is
the answer. I mean, I don't want to be exclusionary, but having only
subscribers at some level able to just chat and do news and stuff is
probably worth it. It doesn't stop people from participating in the IRC
(which is another great reason everyone should be using IRC). But it
does allow me to limit the video and audio stream to just subscribers. I
think there's a subscriber tier thing so perhaps just the lowest could
get people access to absolutely random me as well as some value in
analyzing the news of the day immediately rather than waiting.

One thing's for sure. I'm just not going to polish up a news video like
*Weekly Weird News*. I just don't have the time. That is their full-time
job.

## Friday, February 14, 2020, 9:21:55AM

Streaming has got me reviewing all my written content and curriculum
(again) and adjusting based on new priorities and focus. I suppose this
is no different from any other time over the last six to seven years
doing this. In fact, everyone really should reevaluate what their doing,
why their doing it, and how to get better pretty regularly. I imagine
those who don't find life rather challenging. Somewhat ironically this
is how you get --- and keep an occupation. The word occupation is so
much better than job or even career but it still has something of a
negative connotation. It's not occupying your time, it's about find the
thing that will make time fly by and making every decision in the
pursuit of that. Yes, it's about bliss, but it's also about focus. And
it seems focus is in short supply these days.

So what *is* my focus? It goes without saying that my focus is on my
health and family. There's never a need to really say that. In fact,
those who are most likely to put stuff like that in their title and
comments and Twitter descriptions are usually most likely to *not* focus
on those things. It's like a need a reminder or are afraid that if they
don't spell it out people won't know, when in fact these things are
obvious and need no calling out. People forget those thing are for
communicating to potential followers what they might want to learn or
read about you. And usually it isn't about your religion, family, or
nationalism.

Anyway, where was I?

So what's my focus, at least now that I'm streaming? And how should it
change, if at all?

First, I've concluded that producing videos and live-streaming are the
biggest changes because they are immediate and reach more people
potentially. So I've decided start live streaming everything. People can
filter out what they so long as I describe well what I'm doing and when
at any moment. So might actually want to write or read these blogs with
me, others might just want to tune in to watch me struggle through
learning Rust for the first time, some come for the community more than
me even. My stream just happens to be a hip place to hang out. There's
something very real that only partially understand about what makes this
sense of place a thing. But it definitely *is* a thing. 

Humans are complex. I feel like too often I have understand why they do
what they do, but really I just accept it and act on it. So, making
myself available on the stream, putting myself out there (as some have
asked) is really the first step. That only alone is scary enough because
I'm bound to make stupid mistakes that everyone can see. Maybe that's
the attraction. People wanna see humans being human. I wonder if that is
related to why sitcoms of horrible family or "reality" shows do so well.
Either we want to feel better than the imaginary family or want to feel
like we belong. This is why I've known so many people, some shut ins,
who buy stuff from QVC. They obsessively watch hours of QVC craving some
sort of artificial connection. But stream is a *real* connection. It
might not be in person, but it's real.

I think I've just discovered a new thing. Drinking coffee off camera
with just a mic and some nice music while processing all the new info
from the night (I always wake with ideas) and getting myself moving and
prepared for more during the day. Who knows I might actually manage to
get a schedule again, but I refuse to write it down. Having someone else
read and expect a schedule is very risky. No, I'll just be better about
making sure notifications that Twitch sends are accurate. After all,
some people use their phones for this stuff and might even be woken up
the email notification sounding off and some early hour.

This blogging and talking thing is also a thing. I was concerned I was
going to lose blogging and writing, but why not combine the two. Being
able to take live questions and life at real-time commentary makes this
streaming thing *so* much more powerful than Twitter (although Twitter
has it's place for broadcasting and finding new people you *want* to
know). Someone once told me, "Facebook is for staying connected to the
people you've known. Twitter is for finding and connecting with the
people you *want* to know." (It was something like that.)

So what to do about the change in focus. It has definitely already
affected my priorities for the better, but how?

It's probably a good thing to thing to separate creation of videos
(Twitch highlights) from live-streaming. In many ways they are very
different and serve different purposes.

Videos are equivalent to what I've been calling README modules or
articles. In fact, I plan on embedding every video into a specific
written module. The video will eventually be secondary to the written
content, but the video will come first. 

One of the things that's really slowed me down has editing all the
modules for the different topics and skills I need to cover. So I'll do
the video first and eventually get to writing it up. I have hundreds of
videos to do, if not thousands, all very small, all covering very
specific topics or steps, some are going to be particularly hard to
capture on video, which is why a *good* capture card is so essential.
For example, creating any video that has to do with booting something,
installing Linux, working with a Raspberry Pi. A capture card covers all
this.

It's becoming clear that moving to a remote subscriber model for the
mentoring I'm doing probably is the right way to go because I can reach
and help more people. After I wouldn't be doing this if my goal wasn't
to help people. I've blogged before about why subscriber education seems
best as opposed to Udemy videos where you don't get the community along
with the videos. I don't understand why people don't realize that one
greatest attractions of *any* educational community *is* the community.
For example, people remember their college friends. They make
connections learning together. Few things are more satisfying. If the
goal of life is love and learning then the community is the most
important part. Udemy and other such videos create an artificial sense
of community but not an *actual* community. Subscriber streams ---
specifically on platforms like Twitch which use IRC --- are
fundamentally built on community. That is the building block that so
many other online learning platforms are missing --- including
FreeCodeCamp that claims to promote it but fails to facilitate it nearly
as well as Twitch does. 

Once again, gaming leads to mainstream gains. It's the "Disneyland
Affect" all over again, which reminds me I really need to write that up
more formally. I did find my old, deleted Mo Hax blog the other day. I
might resurrect some of my best articles written for that. After all
thousands participated in the comments there. I wonder how I would copy
over the comments there. The topics were surprisingly relevant to my
conclusions about Twitch streaming including --- above all --- the
importance of fun and community both of which promote the creation of
dopamine in the brain which is proven to promote learning retention.
This is why gamified learning is such a powerful thing. It's why we
learn to play games so quickly even when the interactive tutorials are
horrible.

Well that's a lot for this morning.

1. Continue live streaming *everything* (well not *everything*).
1. Prepare specific videos to go with material.
1. Don't get bogged down by perfection.
1. Prioritize what people need most.
1. Create specific paths through the content.

That does make we wonder if eventually streaming Mr. Rob doing Yoga
might be strangely interesting to some people, which also reminds me
that I need to figure out what is better: run a different stream, or
change the category and make sure the notifications are clear about the
stream. So for example, yoga, I would change the category temporarily.
Perhaps when playing a game as well. I need to figure out the protocol
and expectation for that.

## Thursday, February 13, 2020, 5:54:09PM

So Hexchat is definitely the IRC I'll be suggesting everyone learn
seeking their [PTP](https://skilstak.io/ptp) from me. It comes by
default on Mint and is the standard way to get help from the community
for anything related to Mint or Linux in general. As sexy as I
personally fine WeeChat and IRSSI to be they are simply not as
empowering. In fact, the only power they give you is to use an IRC
bouncer and participate in chats completely anonymously. There are
enough ways to do that using VPNs and Tor that allow the use of HexChat
that the GUI benefits of seeing when another channel has new information
strongly outweigh the benefits of being terminal only.

There, see, I'm not a terminal bigot. Right tool for the job. Being able
to set HexChat to always be on top and visually get all the data I need
so quickly would be really hard to match without a *lot* of WeeChat
customization. And even though WeeChat supports mouse interaction at
that point you have to seriously ask yourself why you aren't just using
HexChat in the first place.

So I guess I need to review my list of stuff from the PTP chart.

## Thursday, February 13, 2020, 5:29:58PM

I inadvertently turned on the JavaScript console while browsing just to
push over the rendered screen a bit (while streaming) and noticed Medium
sends messages to the console specifically for developers with a nice
bit of ASCII art. You know the obvious conclusion here, I will always
browse everything with my JavaScript console open from now on. Seems I
wasn't the first to hide Easter eggs there, and of course I wouldn't be.
It's a natural way for geeks to connect at a basic level.

## Thursday, February 13, 2020, 5:00:30PM

After jumping through all kinds of hoops for a GitHub action to pull
down and configure a full Python 3.7 instance just to run Vint, just to
lint the vimscript for the `vim-pandoc-syntax` plugin I'm *really*
triggered about how completely wasteful having a full action setup for
something as trivially simple as linting is. 

In fact, the entire value proposition of such a thing can only be
realized on projects where the different number of contributors is very
high and their experience varied. 

Call me old-fashioned, but what is the difference between an "Action"
and just running the damn linter from the command line before you even
save the fucking thing? 

I think I know the answer: to enable continuous testing and not have to
setup the testing every time. After all that the central promise from
the whole CI/CD thing. But I can't help thinking that like everything
DevOps these days, people are being stupid because they aren't
challenging the approach on *every* project and just doing it because
that is what everyone does --- or worse --- that is what will get them a
job or a new account.

The catastrophe that has become the massive cluster fuck of
micro-services today --- culminating in "mesh solutions" and the
(re)invention of (g)RPC --- is the natural result of all of this.
Sometimes I swear people forget to use their brains instead they read
the latest Gartner Group report or use whatever has the most GitHub
stars.

We talked about Deno and Ryan Dahl today and all of this is *exactly*
why I love that guy so much. He sees things practically and constantly
challenges everything including his own massively popular creations. We
need more of that, we need more Ryan Dahls.

## Thursday, February 13, 2020, 9:15:34AM

More conclusions:

## It's okay to have kids use VSCode.

Those who prefer it can still use it, but I'm going to make another very
clear map of what they *cannot* do until they learn `vim`.

## Need a fun three with fruit on it.

This way they can see what they get when they climb out onto a
particular branch. 

## Need to find or write some good mind mapping software.

So far I cannot find anything that has a decent outline conversion.
Inspiration was *so* good but they shut their doors in November 2019.
That was a pretty good run for them. I used them in 1996 a lot for all
my college work.

## GPLv3 all the things.

After reading a lot more about
[Tivoization](http://www.linfo.org/tivoization.html) I'm finding myself
siding pretty strongly with the FSF, which is a bit odd for me. In fact,
GPLv3 is the *only* thing that even attempts to take on the fight
against the movement toward devices just being extensions of services
that we don't actually own. If a company chooses to be that shitty I
want them to at least suffer from not having access to all the great
code that I (and the rest of free software developers) are making. 

They can put shitty Zsh substituted to avoid giving back their
improvements (as Apple did) but they will always suck for doing so. 

I have *no* problem with someone burning an encryption key onto a board
and making their device not work if someone tampers with it, so long as
they *provide the key to the end user* so they can do what they want
with it. Not only is that appropriate, it is the only fair solution and
covers *every* FUD inflammatory case (medical equipment, satellites, air
traffic control). 

In fact, the government is actually likely to *want* Tivoization in
order to assert dictatorial governance of the market and ensure they can
active and spy on citizens however they deem fit. This is just not okay
in *any* country. 

So Stallman (you controversial, industry-changing fuck) I'm with you on
this one. Linus can go fuck himself. Torvalds has always been completely
clueless when it comes to the *real* legal matters at hand. (Probably
had several governments and companies approach him.) 

I seriously doubt Torvalds has even read one court case brought which
the FSF has been constantly involved with to determine their course of
action. But that asshole has the gall to through shit and FUD at the FSF
suggesting they lied about what was in the license to entice people to
use it, instead of creating a new license. No wonder not a *single*
person in the audience raised their hand when he asked. No, Linus is
just old and clueless, brilliant, but clueless. 

Yes I think a new license would have been better, but there were so many
changes and clarifications to GPLv2 that it was the natural best place
to add the Tivoization clause as well. There was no sneaking around. 

In fact, after having been slightly on Torvalds side and then fully
reading the full arguments from the legal FSF team I think Linux is not
only uninformed, but, to use his words, "a fucking moron" on this topic
as are more of the "open source" people who just want to MIT license all
the things. I keep finding that people who *truly* dig into the issues
almost always land on the side of the FSF, but hardly none of the
developers I run across have even read *any* of the licenses involved
let alone understand them. This is how Facebook got away with their
React shit.

## Wednesday, February 12, 2020, 1:32:30PM

Would it be okay to entirely drop the Senior Software Engineer track? I
mean, it is implied in Senior Cybersecurity Engineer. Let's face it,
there is not time to learn Vue and all the sysops stuff for most people
before they leave to college or wherever. I'm thinking a conversation
about what Vue and React are, and what PWAs are, is as far as I take
them. All of those tops are a good year of focus for most.

Eliminating the extra web stuff allows them to get into Golang
programming more. Since the shift almost no one has been able to make
time for Go and shell. Then again, most of them do no coding during the
week but while they are here, something that continually annoys me and
motivates me to drop them and seek others who are seriously focused on
cybersecurity, admin, and ops. The streaming has revealed that there are
potentially people out there to follow --- and pay --- for those spots
vacated by the once-a-week game developers in my community. There's
still a lot of consideration before making that decision. Perhaps a
waiting list for those online who might want to do it. But knowing that
it the eventual direction really allows me to focus on the specific
content needed for my ideal group of community members.

Instead I could approach the web development from two angles, how to
quickly publish results are participate in the README World Exchange of
knowledge (blogs, etc.) and how to break into them. That means focusing
on HTTP, `curl` and such and less on image formats for gaming. I mean,
the material is there for those who want to continue on that path on
their own, but I could laser focus on the Cybersecurity and Linux
certification above all.

That really feels like the right thing to do. I've chopped so much, but
chopping that makes so much sense. In fact, following on the idea of
building on existing content rather than creating all my own content I
could piggy back off the WGU focus and alter it, injecting it with LPIC
instruction and preparation for OSCP and one or more network
certifications. By opening focusing on these things from the beginning
--- and stating so up front --- I end up with a hyper-focused community
on what I believe is not only the most employable tech occupation, but
the one the world most critically needs. In fact, I could see what is
needed for these people to get the certified web developer certification
that WGU requires and focus on them getting that if they want just for
the paper even though they would far surpass their requirements.

## Wednesday, February 12, 2020, 1:23:59PM

After deciding to go with a new [skilstak.sh]{.spy} I'm realizing a lot
of other changes I had in mind are now very easy.

Perhaps the biggest is that new members don't have to have their own
Linux system. They just have to have access to a computer. That's it.

This opens up the possibility to offer mentoring in some way to others
who are just starting out and want to learn the shell without setting up
a Linux machine at first.

This motivates people to learn Bash enough to customize their own
`bashrc` files. In fact, I could provide the basic one and then
*require* them to customize their own as an exercise. I love this
because my modular refactor of my `config` fits right into this because
they can copy what they want incrementally into their own.

I've also concluded that my fear of having people become dependent on
the server (as opposed to their own) is unfounded. History has shown
that everyone starts up their own server as soon as possible once they
have the skills. It's like the drive many have to build their own
computer instead of use the one provided to them by the school lab. So I
need not fear an imagined dependency on SkilStak. Hell, I have so few
members I could offer an unlimited account for veterans who reach a
certain level. Nah, they would have their own server at that point.

## Wednesday, February 12, 2020, 12:30:18PM

Had a night to sleep on the new direction and a good long walk with my
wife discussing it.

The main paths to Senior Cybersecurity Engineer and Senior Software
Developer will remain, along with the common foundation, but the
question remains as to whether to allow multiple paths through the same
initial content or to require everyone to take the same consistent path
mostly for practical reasons, not particularly because that is the
*best* path. 

Every school on the planet pretty much creates one consistent path for
everyone, but I have the unique opportunity to vary that path based on
the individual. However, when I do vary the path it seems like after the
person completes the stuff they are interested in that they are never
motivated to do the important stuff they need. This simply prolongs a
situation that might have been detected and dealt with from the vary
beginning. 

In other words, I need the filter back that I once had, and that filter
is ***command line terminal for everything***. There is simply no better
filter for those who will eventually decide this isn't their thing. And
let's fact it, I don't want to waste my personal time helping anyone who
doesn't agree with the essential need for these skills, the most
fundamental of which is the command line. There are a lot of honorable,
needed occupations that do not emphasize the command line, I would just
rather focus on those that do. The end.

I've all but decided to drop the \$30/month static IP and rebuild the
original skilstak.sh remote cloud system for everyone. My highest
quality people came out of here when I used that approach and the
ability to log in from *anywhere* really drove their learning to new
heights. Anyone with SSH and a terminal could do anything and didn't
have to stress about saving it to GitHub or even setting that up
initially. I think I've underestimated how significant that barrier is
for absolute beginners. As soon as we have to do `ssh-keygen -t ed25519`
their eyes glaze over. *But* if they have had time to get used to a
remote command line --- that is very consistent --- when the time comes
to learn that command and setup GitHub they are like, "Oh, so it's just
another command to add to my collection." 

This indirectly makes a statement about VSCode as well. While it
addresses the same hurdles it presents a whole bunch of its own. But
unfortunately the hurdles VSCode presents are very specific and
overcoming them provides no additional value to other endeavors.

I'm reminded of the absolute hay-day that was [SkilStak]{.spy} during
the era of command-line first. Our first lesson was how to use `ssh`.
Our second was how to navigate the command line. Third was how to edit
files remotely from the terminal. This initial focus on the command-line
clearly set the mood and expectations for every single class to follow
--- for the better. I need that back.

So, what's the plan? Simply to add [skilstak.sh]{.spy} back in full
force and to train everyone up on it immediately. We will divert from
our current Web focus to terminal CLI skills --- following the Linux
book rather closely --- and return to Web stuff up on the server. I'll
provide a web server for everyone that *does not require Git* and people
can preview their development immediately as they do it.

The biggest challenge that remains will be the transferring of images up
to the remote system. But honestly, that is a matter of learning `scp`
which they have otherwise not had a reason to learn up to now.

REPL.it still does not remain a good options because the ability to
customized your `bashrc` file simply does not exist and --- most of all
--- REPL.it *requires* that one have a web interface.

This feels remarkably good and will ridiculously simplify my next lab
rebuild. Come to think of it, the nature and availability of
high-quality terminals now for all operating systems has removed the
initial motivation for using the colored VSCode terminal completely.

Most importantly, however, this focus on the ability to be productive
*with nothing but a command line* is the *core value and skill* that
[SkilStak]{.spy} has always been about. Anything else --- no matter how
justified by specific occupational pursuits --- simply doesn't belong
here. The ultimate priority is on pentesting, systems administration,
SRE/DevOps, and Full-Stack web development *which requires robust
knowledge and skill with the backend command line interface*.

A few things will be significantly different:

* **A password longer than 40 characters will be required.** Public keys
are safer, but they are less flexible and using them is more likely to
cause a beginner to leave their private key cached on some unsafe
computer from which they connected. This is a strange, rather rare
situation where logging in with a password is safer overall than using
keys. I'll go forward with my security auditing plan to ensure guessable
passwords are cracked and I get notified. In fact, since no one will
die, I'm tempted to give visibility to the /etc/shadow file to everyone
to practice their cracking skills. It will *seriously* motivate people
to maintain *good* passwords. It will instill the proper paranoia that
we should *always* expect someone to have access to that file and be
able to brute force it, 'cuz they will. This is one example of something
completely counter-intuitive that no one else would ever consider, but
emphasizes learning skills and habits of highly-skilled cybersecurity
professionals. It will also seriously encourage people to login often.

* *Everyone will get their own subdomain.* I have a small enough
community now that there is no reason not to give them one. Eventually
they will move off to Netlify or their own subdomain but that is
secondary now. The primary priority is on command line navigation and
development.

* *Members will be encouraged to hack other members (within reason).*
They do it anyway every time I set this up. So encouraging it and
managing that expectation will cause people to behave more like they are
going to DefCon and be *really* prepared and safe with their content.
I'll have a hard and fast rule about destructive hacks, but nothing
about being able to hack them and leave their stuff someplace else for
them to recover easily. This will light a fire under those who are
intrinsically attracted to cybersecurity and specifically to pentesting.
If the risk of being hacked and the "trouble" to protect yourself is too
much for anyone, well, they probably don't belong here in the first
place.

* *Everyone will have a web server.* Automatically everyone will get a
web server and a range of ports then can use to bring up their own
services for experimenting with tunneling, websockets, gRPC, and more.

* *Keybase integration.* Keybase will be the common way to share files
between members and a *very* easy way to add images and such to the
system without having to necessarily learn how to use `scp` (which we
will still learn).

* *Significant, ongoing capture the flag games will be emphasized.*
There is nothing more fun that this. It is what shapes their interests.
Even those most interested in creating games of their own are
overwhelmed so much by Easter eggs and hacking *real life* games that
they can focus on little else once they start. *There* are my core
community members and I want more than anything to free time to focus on
this stuff. 

* *Web development de-emphasized.* There will still be web development
enough to get the WGU CWD certification but nothing more. A fundamental
understanding of web pages and such is essential for everything --- but
especially for cybersecurity and bug bounty efforts.


## Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 6:12:07PM

I'm a little conflicted now on what should be the first JavaScript book,
or even the first book period. It seems like three main paths and types
of learners are emerging based on the project or thing that the person
most wants to get the fastest:

1. Video game.
1. Minecraft server.
1. Web site/app. 
1. Job in tech.
1. Hacker skills.

I've had multiple paths before. All of them include the same material
just in different orders. This makes me question the preferred path I
outlined in [Modern Technology Foundations](/mtf/).

I think my experiment bypassing the command-line skills I tried with one
person this last few months blew up because the person ended up *really*
needing and *wanting* them once they figured out how much easier they
are than using the GUI to move things around.

The question is do I maintain my focus and requirement for everyone to
get on Linux first? On the one hand you have the solid experiences
providing low-hanging fruit, but on the other such experiences can give
a false impression of the actual work involved to become a technologist
with the fundamentals I maintain are foundational. 

However, back when *everyone* had to learn shell by logging into
`skilstak.sh` and even learned `vi` before *anything* else I had
*tremendous* success. Every one of those people who survived went on to
do amazing things including full employment at 16 in technical jobs. Did
that approach provide a filter, much like an intense Chem or Physics 101
does? I think it did. If so do I still want to keep that filter in
place? Or do I soften everything to those who might never need Linux and
only minimally need the command line.

I think I know the answer, I just am having a hard time admitting it. I
really just don't want to deal with people who are not naturally
attracted to Linux and the command line. That's not bad to say. It's not
evil of me to only want to work with people who intuitively understand
why this is objectively true. Plus it is my sweet spot. People who want
to use VSCode their whole lives and play around with React and web
graphics and --- for God sakes only want to make a game with GameMaker
or Unity --- can simply find some other way to learn that stuff. 

In short, I want to further focus specifically on the following:

1. Linux
1. Pentesting
1. Bug Bounties
1. Minimal JAMstack Web Sites and Progressive Web Apps in Vue
1. Physical Computing

I fucking hate game development and always have. (Actually I wanted to
do it when I was 12 so that's not completely fair. I must never forget
that). I always teach game development as a means to an end. But I'd
rather help people setup Minecraft servers all day and watch them become
kick-ass system administrators and get Linux certified at 15 than have
someone create the next fucking Fortnite. And there it is, the truth.

The disappointing reality of my initial effort teaching GameMaker is
that my 3rd student ever never amount to anything more than a crappy
GameMaker user who threw off even GameMaker language and stuck with the
pretty GUI interface. It was a serious mistake to let that go on for as
long as I did. At the same time others of his age were *way* into
Minecraft and went on to do seriously amazing things, one even teaching
himself Assembly.

The sad reality is that if someone is fundamentally attracted to making
games (and little  more) I'm *never* going to be able to entice them out
of it and frankly it's not my place to do so. People are people. And the
world clearly needs games, far more than reality television. Games *are*
art. I'm not attacking games. Just my frustration with people who are
obsessed with nothing more than making them. It's tough because just the
other night I med a brilliant Assembly programmer who got into *because*
he wanted to hack NES games in Assembly. I want to believe those skills
will eventually be applied in other places as well. But I'm not going
down that road. Not when I can create gamified hackathons and
hack-the-box puzzles related to *real* skills that are our world so
desperately needs.

I'm super triggered tonight because I actually let myself give in to
downloading GameMaker for a brilliant person here and trying it on Linux
and suddenly realized, "What the *FUCK* am I doing?" I rather directly
said, "You have two options, this book or the other. You pick. That's
it. If you want something more or don't find this stuff interesting it's
time for you to leave." (Yes I actually said that.) That's pretty damn
harsh of me. But it worked and he actually enjoyed the new book. 

I'm not normally like that. I'm just tired of having to be a creative
marketing charlatan to get people to come around to doing what I hope
will amount to skills that can help us all. This is compounded by the
fact that I have several members of my community who *do* understand
this stuff and seek from a very young age to make that difference and
have. I really wish I understood why that is. Best I can do is curate a
community of just such individuals. After all, I started this community
and I can decide who stays and who is encouraged not to return.

Streaming has been great because it further proves that such people are
out there, many of them are in college, which makes sense. Others have
lived a fair amount of their lives and come to the same set of
priorities that I seem to have. So perhaps streaming is the answer to my
frustration that I've been seeking.

GameMaker can fuck right off.

## Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 5:57:37PM

Just realized that when I have a capture card I can capture the BIOS
setup and installation details regarding UEFI installations for all the
different computers I have around the lab. There's a good chance one
will look what the viewer has at home. I have a pretty good sample of
BIOS types, MSI, America (whatever, the blue one everyone has), Dell
(which is rather unique), and even an HP. Hell, I can even capture how
to do it on a Mac Mini. I think that variety of BIOS setup videos is
easily worth the \$150 or so that they cost. YouTube has very few
(substantial) videos that actually show working with the BIOS through
this challenges, which continue to be the biggest hurdles for more
people trying out Linux installations for the first time.

So now the question is which of the capture cards is best for this type
of thing. A lot of the recommended ones are not generic enough. I think
I am sold on the idea of having component in as well since that allows
the capture from even old video cameras, of which we have many in the
lab.

## Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 5:47:10PM

I am *really* liking this [Eloquent
JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net) book. I have someone working
through it with the console open right along-side the free,
creative-commons book and tinkering with the concepts as they read them.
That's phenomenal to me. I also read ahead and noticed that the *main*
project in the book is a nice platformer in which the reader codes their
own gravity and collision, which is something I always like to do before
giving them a PhaserJS or other library crutch. 

I think I'm really sold. 

I think I'll recommend this first (before the Learning JavaScript) book
for most, but stick with the main recommendation of the O'Reilly book
because it is quite a bit more thorough (but nothing like Definitive
JavaScript). Eloquent JavaScript appeals more to younger coders as well
and most of those with whom I work are rather young. Plus they can say
they literally coded a game *from scratch*.

Plus the writing and references in Eloquent JS are hilarious and the
author doesn't shy away from math and horrible puns and metaphors. I
really quite impressed.

## Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 4:34:31PM

Just hearing about [Pop!_OS](https://system76.com/pop) from System76 and
it looks encouraging. I'm so not a fan of that company having had a
*horrible* experience with their customer service in 2013, but perhaps
they have matured. Their computers are still ridiculously overpriced and
their return policies are frankly unacceptable in today's market. (They
charged me like \$150 for "rebox-ing" and "scratches" after the laptop I
purchased turned out to be ridiculously underpowered for the price.)

Evaluating disto installs and such prompted me to start looking for a
way to capture the output to the monitor and stream that to OBS since
anything that goes to the monitor includes all the BIOS and other
things. It would be the best way to stream such sessions rather than
sticking a camera in front of the monitor.

Looks like there are several brands and they all do exactly what I'm
thinking of because they are used to capture screens from consoles and
such. This is frustrating because I know I need one to make the
installation video for Mint to capture the BIOS stuff.

## Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 2:00:47PM

Trying to capture all the [streaming tips](/streaming-tips/) I've been
learning as I do but man there are a lot of them.

Just completed my first thumbnail after giving it a lot of consideration
and it is *not* fun. I would much rather be producing content and code.
It could almost be automated, but I'm afraid there is no way to create
the initial screen capture required so it is just faster to make it from
the most relevant image from the stream combined with a title that is
readable above all else, even if it is not particularly beautiful. Ain't
got no time for that.

![Amazon Meet Oxide Thumbnail](amazon-meet-oxide.png)

The amount of blogging I do has already been significantly reduced due
to all the videos. I'm okay with that so long as the major keywords and
concepts are written somewhere that can be found on the Internet through
the normal searches. That said, I will be producing *far* less written
content, that's for sure. I can convey so much more verbally ---
especially with body language, which makes sense since that is the
natural best form of human communication. As a bonus, it means I can
communicate much better with Russians and French people because I speak
those languages but have a hard time typing them. At the end of the day
I've always been a better verbal communicator than writer, although I do
love writing.

One potential side effect of this is that I will free up time faster for
writing creative works rather than all this tech/work stuff.

One *huge* casualty in all of this will be the README World Exchange
project, which is now very secondary to getting as much content created
as possible as video. After that the priority is distilling and
organizing those videos into lessons with a path and as much written
material and exercises as possible. All the rest of the projects after
that are tertiary, including, I'm afraid, the RWX project.

So, I will triage the README WorldPress (`rw`) tool that I have and get
it using Pandoc for builds again and finish the search indexing with the
goal of getting [skilstak.io]{.spy} back up to date and both
`rxwrob.live` and `robs.io` split off of it.

The SOIL project is also all but officially dead. Another academic
streamer and I talked through that whole burden of governance for even
the most loosely organized groups and he basically talked me out of it
by reminding me of realities somehow I already knew. That no matter
what, you will always have drama when there is more than one person
involved in any endeavor. We agreed a BDFL is a better approach and is
the governance model for most successful open source projects including
Linux and Python. Even having a SOIL convention would incur massive
organization and lost time and for what? To spend a lot of time to come
together and learn and discuss stuff that we could more easily cover on
a collaborative live stream? No, the future --- and present --- is
streaming. Conventions are dead. They really are. It is great meeting
people in person and that will always be a thing, but it will never
produce the total value that doing all of the same thing online can do.
(One-on-one, in-person mentoring is an entirely different thing, and has
the potential to work online as well, but I have yet to successful test
that premise.)

It's worth noting that the extremely brilliant minds and souls behind
oxide.computer seem to have arrived at something similar to this
conclusion as well. They are podcasting and building, period. There is
something to be said to keeping laser focused on good output, be it
content or code, and just sharing what is happening to people can find
and follow what is happening. It's also the most inclusive approach. As
much as I want to go to defcon it will probably never been a reality ---
even if it was held in my home town. So I'm getting a lot of internal
confirmation that this is the right path to take with all of this.

Twitter posting has also dropped to zero. I only post really good stuff
and links to videos that are out and invitations to specific live
streams. I think everyone will enjoy that more because the content is
more specific and they can choose whether to just shoot the breeze or
check out the more polished videos as they come out. At some point I
have a feeling I will be picked up by the writer's themselves and can
perhaps get an interview with one or two on stream and I *have* to
prepare technically for that possibility above all others.

Another project that I'm nixing is the "couch talk" here in the studio.
It's far more important that I get the ability to have phone and Discord
and Slack and Skype interviews and conversations on stream than anything
I can do in world here. It would be certainly fun, but it's secondary to
the content itself.

I am *not* nixing the remote hack-the-box type games and Easter eggs in
my web site. They have massive appeal and reach not only those that I
mentor here in person but *everyone* on the Internet. That is even a
higher priority than finished the RWX project (but not the RW project,
which I need to be able to document things as quickly as possible).
Humm, maybe I could keep RWX *ultra* lightweight and just be a place for
people to post their RW sites. That might be doable within the same
parameters.

To summarize, my single top priority is producing as much high-quality
educational content as possible in the core domains that I have always
been focused on. This means videos about all the introductory stuff that
I do IRL with my mentored sessions to help everyone find their bearings
and path, then it is annotating the main books and certification
outlines in an organized way, not quite as organized as taking a course,
per se, but enough that people find value in it enough to motivate them
to continue with their learning (and save as much money as they possibly
can).

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 6:44:31PM

Twitch's sending out of email notifications that I am live on stream
when I'm actually not is getting really annoying. At this point it is
looking like it is doing something to detect changes to the visual
stream itself. So when I pop on to write a quick blog post everyone gets
blasted with "Rob's Live" and that has to be annoying. I feel like I
need to apologize on Twitch's behalf every time that happens.

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 6:41:03PM

Behringer music equipment is absolute shit. I'll *never* buy another
product from that company. Allen & Health all the way. It's *always*
worth the few extra dollars to get a quality product.

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 3:59:57PM

A great new friend on stream suggested I look at [Eloquent
JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net) which I had bumped into a
few times but not fully read. I'm also pretty sure I was looking at an
outdated version of it as well. The new version is amazing. It is (so
far) on par or better than Learning JavaScript (my current standard
recommendation). Imma ready both again compared to each other and make a
decision about which one should come first. Unfortunately, neither has
good example and exercises, but that is okay so long as readers approach
either as source from which to create their own codebooks and example
exercises that they can repeat. I keep running into this need for
exercises that are specific to the concepts. Perhaps that is an area
that I can focus on specifically and attach to these works to help those
out who are reading them.

The fact that eloquent JavaScript is entirely Creative Commons almost
makes me want to use it over the other one just because of that. I could
even fork it and supplement it with the stuff I feel is perhaps missing.
Now *there* is an idea, get behind an open work rather than making yet
another one. So long as a consistent voice can be maintained
collaborative authoring could work, even if we have to work around the
fact that the book is written in the first person (which I would
probably do myself).

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 2:26:06PM

What if everyone streamed? Would we bring about Datagedon? I think the
answer is no based on base on pace of storage technology improvements. I
had a PowerMac with 30MBs of storage in 1997. Today you can buy a 4TB
hard drive for under \$100. So even though we are all producing a lot
more date --- especially video data --- we are currently outpacing that
need by several orders of magnitude. In other words, it's okay to rely
on streaming video as a medium over the written word in terms of
sustainability.

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 1:55:32PM

There's only so much time in the day. Been thinking a lot about the
nature of live streaming, not just for coding, but more of the Just
Chatting sort of thing. Recently I was able to have some great
conversations that were only loosely associated with tech, super
rewarding stuff.

One on dilemma's I'm facing not that I stream all the time is the impact
it has had on my writing (blogging). I used to blog all of these random
thoughts to put structure around them, but now I'm find just talking
them through (mostly to myself but also the stream) is rather effective
as well as cathartic, not to mention the bonus of randomly meeting and
getting input from others all over the world.

Fatigue is an issue. I mean, I type pretty fast, but being able to
articulate an idea on video with voice is far more accurate at capturing
the idea. Words are far more risky when they are written. Intonation and
inflections are great things we employ in spoken language, but are lost
when written. Hence emojis, etc. I wonder if this is why we've become so
obsessed with video communication. It makes me ask where streaming fits
into it all.

I have a feeling I'll be making a lot more videos than blog posts now
that I've discovered this medium (pun intended) and sticking with blog
posts for things that require a lot of written material, for example,
coding exercises, snippets, URLs, etc.

These days it's somewhat safe to assume the videos I make will live even
beyond my lifetime. This raises lots of questions, but YouTube does not
delete and accounts are free it's possible that our video blogs (vlogs)
could best represent out thoughts and discoveries well into the future.

Writing is still required to pull up in search results. So there's that
to consider as well.

## Monday, February 10, 2020, 12:00:03AM

Need to look at Pretzel for music so videos on demand (VODs) don't get
muted for copyright issues.

Also found zorchenhimer on Twitch who coded a couple NES games in
Assembly.


