## Wednesday, January 27, 2021, 11:45:07AM EST <1611765907>

Yet another reason to use `gh repo clone <repo>` after you have forked
something is that it updates the upstream master automatically making it
easier to keep the latest changes to the original code synced into your
forked copy.

## Wednesday, January 27, 2021, 9:30:00AM EST <1611757800>

Great insight from [\@lambduh](https://twitch.tv/lambduh) about the
requirement to "publish or die" in the academic world. Just goes to show
that the community of knowledge workers is vast and relevant. These
people all need to be able to capture there knowledge in real time and
polish into publications and other ways of sharing later. In other
words, the world needs KEG.

## Wednesday, January 27, 2021, 7:52:52AM EST <1611751972>

I'm going through a sort of depressed frustration right now with how
long it takes to realize *any* idea. I feel like I'm flooded with them
but don't have the physical capacity to execute on them, not even if a I
had team of a dozen people. It will pass. It always does. 

When people want to understand why I get so pissed at "I'm bored"
comments and broken technologies that slow me down this is why. Every
time I have to open a graphic browser for something I could have
searched and read in fraction of the time in a text browser I lose my
shit because it just reminds me how much the mediocre masses don't give
a shit about such efficiencies.

It's not that people don't want --- or can't help --- its just that I
can't get them up and running fast enough. Getting someone up to speed
to be able to help is extra work all by itself. This is exactly why the
`kn` tool is *so* important because if people truly want to help they'll
be able to follow my thinking and sort of get in line with it offering
suggestions and stepping up with solutions without any ramp up. 

One great example of this working successfully is all the work Quint has
done on PEGN. I haven't had to tell him anything about it. He's just
followed the work and experimented with it, and tuned into my live
streams related to it. Now he'll be the first to deploy a PEGN solution
into a professional environment. He's found countless bugs with the API
itself and created his own code generator. I just had to get the spec
out of my head into a base grammar and the rest took off from there. I
suppose that is something I should look to for modeling with other
projects.

## Wednesday, January 27, 2021, 7:31:31AM EST <1611750691>

I've had no less than four different knowledge manager apps in different
forms of Bash and Go over the last five years. I don't bemoan any of it,
but find I keep getting better at identifying what matters most. I've
put the details of latest thinking in a new [`kn`
repo](https://github.com/rwxrob/kn).
