## Sunday, February 7, 2021, 8:45:53PM EST <1612748753>

The other day Dennis (@lastmiles from Twitch) had a John Goodman topic
going on and showed a clip from [The Gambler](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=The Gambler) where he plays sort of a
beneficent mob boss who makes sure the protagonist understands the
concept of "fuck you money," which is when you manage to get just enough
money to live without concern for employment and sucking up to keep your
shitty job.

Even though I doubt I will ever have  FU money (after having started my
own business) my wife and I realized that I've developed, what I'm going
to call, "fuck you skills," which are the same idea. The tech skills
I've built up over more than 25 years of staying current and remaining
an active autodidact really have given me the ability to tell any
potential job, "fuck you, I can leave anytime I want and still stay
employed." This is a great place to be because I never really feel
desperate (and I have helped a lot of people reach FU status).

This is important not just because of the peace of mind and security it
provides, not because you could (or would) leave any time, but because
it allows you to have the courage to push your own limits, seeking a
position that challenges you and match what you want out of life. It
means saying "no" not because you are lazy, but because you know it is
the best path. Although, compromise is required to work for any team or
organization. Companies can die when everyone just rolls over and
accepts the will of less courageous employees.

There's an ongoing theme in Mr. Robot regarding "the invisible hand"
(which, I think, is a Thomas Payne reference) to how people will
compromise their own ethics frequently because "they have to pay rent"
or just because they thing that will get them more out of life.

