## Saturday, January 23, 2021, 4:17:30AM EST <1611393450>

After watching the documentary on Bitcoin there is no fucking way I will
ever participate in any of it. It is such a disaster. 

First it tried to tell the world it would replace fiat currency for
exchanges from everything to pizza and stocks. Then it fell on its
fucking face because of the obvious, eventual performance failures. 

Now proponents are saying it is the "next gold" and everyone should hold
some, while at the same time saying no one should hold any that they
cannot afford to lose immediately due to the volatility and risk.

But the number one reason I will never have anything to do with any
cryptocurrency is the absolute shitty, arrogant attitude of all the main
crypto players. They think they are so smart they have figured out
everything. When Vitaly says that he imagines a day when a "10 year old
can create a smart contract" I want to punch him in the face and say,
"That shit's permanent! There's no way even the smartest 10 year old
could write a contract without some kind of bug." Vitaly is the perfect
example of an absolute complete moron who has super human intelligence.
And they are pretty much all just like him.

Currency needs to be simple. A rock is better currency than any crypto.
Sure dumb asses are pumping money into crypto making it appear worth
looking into, and a lot are making money on the idiocy of others, but
anyone paying *real* attention (including Brian Ford) sees how stupid
the entire premise is.

Just ask the next crypto crazed moron to accost you about how they plan
to contain the 51% attack risk, or the fact that the currency, if used
globally, doesn't exist without more power than the entire world
currently provides. Ask them about the infighting that led to Bitcoin
Cash and later Litecoin. Ask about how the people who control the
software control the world economy. 

You'll get a blank stare every time. 

I hate paying my 2% as much as anyone, but crypto is not the answer, not
the way it is currently setup anyway.
