## Friday, February 12, 2021, 7:57:37PM EST <1613177857>

Having tremendous success helping beginners get started with terminal
web browsing using `w3m` which comes with drop-dead simple and intuitive
defaults. Eventually, some may decide to upgrade to a highly configured
Lynx session, but `w3m` is more than enough for most --- especially now
that I discovered that tab and shift-tab navigate the links (even though
that requires two hands and I prefer browsing entirely with one hand
while I drink coffee with my other, which can be configured in either
but is not the default).

Perhaps the most annoying thing about Lynx is all the cookie approvals
that are not accepted by default. That's enough to make any beginner
reach for w3m (and never leave it, for some). I don't begrudge that
decision by anyone.

My biggest gripe with `w3m` was always assuming too much about all the
table and image layouts that cluttered up reading the actual text, but
that has not been my experience with the defaults of late.

## Friday, February 12, 2021, 6:43:09PM EST <1613173389>

I've done it. I've deleted all my GitHub organization *except* PEGN and
AFKWorks. It feels wonderful I have all the stuff backed up here so I
can go through it as I need it without fear.

## Friday, February 12, 2021, 6:17:56PM EST <1613171876>

The more I think about how CapsLock has fucked up all our lives the
angrier I get at the morons who decided to change the default position
of ESC. The story infuriates me. How many times has CapsLock fucked up
entering a simple password for billions of people. And why? So a tiny
minority of people who actually have a need to type in all capital
letters can do their thing, shout.

In fact, the only assholes who use CapsLock these days are Trump
supporters, you know, the type of shithead you never want to communicate
with in the first place that thinks typing *anything* in all capital
letters is a good idea. The only *good* time is maybe to code Fortran or
write ENV VARIABLE names (but I just typed that without caps
lock).

There's something liberating and "FUCK YOU" about remapping Caps Lock on
my entire computer to ESC. In fact, I'm looking for keyboards that
enable the remapping permanently. My pinkies have never been happier and
every time I use it I'm quite sure some pig-headed, all-caps typing,
shit-fuck of a person feels a slight bit of pain for no rational reason.
(Hey, I can imagine it anyway.)

## Friday, February 12, 2021, 5:38:14PM EST <1613169494>

Blows me away that the installation instructions for `gh` have the user
use `curl -o` instead of `curl -O` to get the name from the URL. Just
goes to show there is a lot *everyone* has to learn and the learning
never stops.

## Friday, February 12, 2021, 5:12:05PM EST <1613167925>

After hearing that some people recommend using Control-C instead of ESC
for Vim I cannot believe how clueless otherwise really informed people
are. They have no idea that doing this not only encourages using
Control-C for mode changes in other contexts (which will usually
abruptly stop the program from working without saving anything) but they
also have no idea they are bypassing some of the most important Vim
events that Plugins use. But the worst thing of all is completely
destroying their ability to use `set -o vi` on their shell history.

Here's a recap of all the ways people deal with requirement for ESC in
Vi/m:

|::|::||
-|-
üëç| CapsLock   | Original ESC position. Requires OS remapping. Universal.
üëç| Alt-[hjkl] | Same as ESC Key. Easy to type. Supported everywhere.
üëç| Control-[  | Same as ESC Key. Easy to type. Not supported in Europe.
üëç| ESC Key    | Default but annoying and bad on pinkies.
üëé| ff/jk/kj   | Requires remapping *every* Vim config. Vim specific.
üëé| Control-C  | Builds really dangerous habits. Hack for Vi/m only.

I've come to conclude that remapping Caps Lock is objectively the best
solution. It has the added advantage of ensuring you never accidentally
hit it during a Vi/m session and *really* mess yourself up (you know you
have done it at least once, admit it).

Here's some [facts about why Caps Lock became king](https://simplyian.com/2015/01/08/The-real-reason-why-Caps-Lock-and-Escape-are-in-terrible-positions/).

Fuck you, Caps Lock. You always sucked anyway. Bubye. Take your useless
ass off of my keyboard. You are my ESC
once more. 

## Friday, February 12, 2021, 4:41:07PM EST <1613166067>

I cannot say how grateful I am for the `gh` command line tool provided
by GitHub. I would abandon GitLab just because of it.

After being notified that SkilStak no longer qualifies for "educational"
status (according to the new Microsoft owned GitHub) --- and ignoring
their suggestion I pay \$32/month just for the privilege of having what
I have kept for *over seven fucking years* I now have all my repos
locally with the following command:

```sh
for i in $(gh repos skilstak); do gh repo clone $i; done
```

This command cloned down all 144 repos from `skilstak` in under 20
minutes allowing me to sleep better knowing they won't suddenly
disappear because MS suddenly changed their mind about what
"educational" actually means (spoiler alert: it's only those paying into
the bullshit status quo system).

God, I cannot *wait* to be rid of both GitHub and GitLab dependencies.
Even though it is slightly more work and will result in some minor
personal monthly costs, I'm setting up *everything* on Gitea instances
for each domain (and will mirror the content to GitHub for visibility).
I'm so fucking done with bait-n-switch bullshit and the people who are
destroyed because of their whims. It's free, so it's hard to complain,
but the great lie they don't tell you is that you never really mattered
at all.

