## Sunday, January 31, 2021, 11:23:26AM EST <1612110206>

OMG I turned off the lights in my room and am coding like I used to all
the time and I cannot believe how much better it is than when I have
them on. Also my fucking fingernails are fucking with my typing. 

## Sunday, January 31, 2021, 11:15:41AM EST <1612109741>

I'm realizing that having the Action documentation for `kn` cannot be a
comment in a script if I'm going to keep the UNIX way of not caring what
languages the actions are written in. So it will have to be a command
that all of them support, probably `help`.

## Sunday, January 31, 2021, 10:44:41AM EST <1612107881>

Only chat streaming for me today. Last night knocked me out. Had to
cancel Beginner Boost. I need some recovery time. Ironic that coding
quietly is one of my best methods to do that.

And another thing, decided given the horrendously bad live chat API at
YouTube that I'll no longer be supporting live chat at all. There's
another *big* reason. After watching [this John Hammond
video](https://duck.com/lite?kd=-1&kp=-1&q=this+John+Hammond+SUDO+video) I
noticed something odd. He's chapters appeared on the side where live
chat normally would. Looks like when you incorporate live chat you give
up that ability. So I am just going to make sure that people know about
<https://chat.rwx.gg> and the options with Twitch and Discord. I know
that will be hard because it will still be two windows for some people,
but it is just not worth it to throw away chapter playlists and deal
with the stupid polling chat api for YouTube live chat. They won't be
able to keep that.

## Sunday, January 31, 2021, 1:06:42AM EST <1612073202>

I wish I could remember the name of the currency that is in control and
can just be printed more when the country controlling it wants to. It's
not "fiat."

