---
Title: Discord for Edtech (When Not Crashing)
Subtitle: Suprisingly Good Educational Communication Tool
Query: true
Summary: 
  I have been using Discord for all my remote mentoring sessions and discovered a few real advantages --- the biggest being sharing a full desktop --- and some disadvantages --- frequent crashes and spotty voice quality.
---

## People Have It

Discord is the most likely tool of its kind that *everyone* will already
have. It is the most popular *casual* rich-chat application

## Screen Sharing

Another obvious advantage is screen sharing. I can see everything in
great detail that the person is doing. Conversely, I can *share*
everything I am doing and show them *exactly* where to click and what to
type. 

I have experienced other tools that let you literally share a mouse and
keyboard but Discord is fine.

## Running Record and Log

Having a running record of everything we shared is a great log. I was
maintaining a log before in Markdown and they are also keeping their own
notes, but having everything we last communicated is really effective to
pick up where we left off last week. I wasn't expecting this advantage
to be so pronounced but it has been one factor in making *remote*
sessions now mandatory. It is just enough logging to keep us from
wasting time and not so much that it because wasteful.

## Markdown Support

Competitors like Slack don't even do minimal Markdown support. In fact,
Slack is so *stupid* they have built their own alternative syntax for
highlighting and stuff. Nothing says "I don't have a clue" more than
building your own markup format with such prevalent industry standards
exist. But hey, YouTube did the same thing. *So* stupid.

The biggest win here is the ability to use code fences. This allows
highly detailed and syntax highlighted code snippets that can easily be
cut and paste. This advantage alone makes Discord an invaluable tool for
tech and code mentoring.

## Crashes *Constantly*

Discord segfaults several times a day. That means there are *critical
memory buffer overflow security bugs* in the Discord Electron app.
There's just no fucking excuse for that. Software should *never*
segfault. It just means the developers are completely inexperienced
noobs who do nothing for *basic* quality assurance.

Then again, this is further proof that any substantial project that
builds itself on JavaScript technology, such as that in Electron, is
bound to fail, not so much because it is JavaScript but because it is
probably using a bunch of unsafe loose types. This is why strictly typed
languages are *so* popular these days. The industry has experienced
almost a decade of such errors from loose interpreted languages and
before that it was unsafe C code. No wonder Rust is so popular, even at
Microsoft.

Discord might look like a fun company to work for, but my God, I would
avoid them at all costs. Their engineering team has proven over and over
again how inexperienced they are.

